@Translation: Boris Kleinbach, kleinbach@ymail.com

San Francisco, 01-26-1997

Hey my dears

<em>Angelika</em> 
Certainly you’ve already been craving for
a sign of life of me/us. Due to he fact that many of you
liked our christmas newsletter and we do have a lot to
report I decided to write another one providing you with
information on my first impressions. Let’s get started:

@Z: The arrival

<pic images/wohn.ps San Francisco: From the living room window>

On December 30th 1996 I landed on San Francisco airport.
Michael and our friends Sylvia and Richard welcomed me
properly.Since I arrived at night I could only admire the
lights oft he city. I was quite excited of our apartment
and I have to admit I wasn’t crestfallen. Despite of only
two rooms the apartment is spacious enough for the two of
us because we didn’t import that much furniture. I guess
we’ll get pretty comfortable. We’ve already bought a
futon-couch. It can be used as a bed for guests at the same
time: You can tell, we’re convienient thinking. 

<pic images/view.ps In front oft he living room window: a palm tree, downtown and bay>

Our kitchen is _ as Michael already described _ sort of
American-uglyish. The most fascinating to me is the
extralarge stove and the refrigerator. Also a funny thing
are the obligate emergency stairs that can get misuse to
reach the balcony in summer. The view of our window is
stunning. We can see palms, Victorian buildings, the
skyline of San Francisco and on sunny day we can even see
the bay and the ships cruising there.

<pic images/panorama.ps Panorama-view>

In our house live seven parties, most of them young people
all being very nice. However the house belongs to a Chinese
who never shows up. He lets everything done by his estate
agent. The house quite ressembles to my homes during my
times as a student in Münster. The quarter where we are
living is called Noe Valley and is one of the most
beautiful quarters in San Francisco because it consists
almost of Victorian houses. 24th street being situated in
front of our house has a lot of nice tiny shops (boutiques,
florists, a great stationery shop, a supermarket that is
open till midnight, a mail station and so on). Another
positive ist hat ther’s plenty of little cafés and pretty
good restaurants. Michael and I are gonna test them on and
on which is a lot of fun.  

<pic images/noe2.ps Of course there’s a street named Noe Street in Noe Valley>

By the way I forgot
to mention that there is a laundry salon angled in front of
our appartment that we use frequently since we ain’t got a
washing machine neither in our appartment nor in the
basement of our house. My friend Sylvia told me that it is
a common thing to use the laundry salon if you rent an
apartment. I guess presumably we’re not gonna buy a washing
machine, above all since it’s pretty exciting to watch the
people that go to the laundry salon. Unfortunately, there
is no dishwasher in our apartment. On the usual it is
common that the installed kitchen has already a dishwasher
and a microwave. Due to our house being already old we had
to pass on this. Those of you who know Michael and me, know
that we don’t like washing dishes and this condition is not
gonna last for a long time. At the moment we manage the
dishes well but since we only got few of it borrowed by
Sylvia. This is cause our container hasn’t yet arrived in
the US. That’s why Sylvia provides the most important
things to us: a table, chaird and a bed.

<pic images/church.ps Church street and the laundry salon next to it>

@Z: Safe and not so safe quarters 

Let’s get back to our quarter: Another
important fact ist hat Noe Valley is very safe that meands
you can walk around the quarter at daytime as well as on
nighttime without being afraid. That pisses me off the most
at the moment that you gotta think before where you can go
safely or  not. Sometimes that ends up in taking a detour
instead of crossing an unsafe quarter. San Francisco is in
concerns of this a typical American city: absolutely quiet
living quarters change to a totally scruffy quarters just
two streets away which you should try hard to avoid at
nighttime. I’m afraid Michael has a talent to get into
those scruffy quarters. Like last Sunday on a bus tour we
crossed a quarter we’d even avoid to get off in daytime.
There were burned car wracks on the sidewalk, piles of junk
evergrowing, and no white person in sight. The busdriver
didn’t open the doors in this area though people were
waiting on the bus stops. We found that he was anxious
about us because he kept on looking in the rear view mirror
and kept eye-contact with us. That was kind of calming. In
such situations I long for safe Munich. 

<pic images/ksf.ps The transportation boxes from Munich arrive in San Francisco.>

I hope my description won’t keep you from
visiting us. Don’t worry, Michael highlights the scruffy
quarters in the map all the time and I swear there’s still
enough quarters that don’t have to be highlighted that are
respectively safe.  

What really is shocking to us, ist he
social poverty that shadows you all the time you’re on the
way in San Francisco. So there is a lot of homeless
beggars. If you walk beyond a bridge you’ll always find two
or three homeless people that sleep there looking for
shelter from the weather. A big issue is that the
conditions to receive social benefits have recently
worsenned. The plan is to be only eligible for social
benefits for the tiem of two years. If you didn’t find a
job you don’t receive social benefits anymore. It is said
there are gonna be aid programs introduced to help the
unemployed to make it easier to get a job though there is a
critical debate on this in liberal newspapers because they
think that’s not enough. If you read the relevant papers
properly you’ll find the discussion on the rising of
violence and crime, the partly bad education, above all in
public schools due to the poor social security level.
Nevertheless there are no protests among the people. The
old-fashioned prejudice about America is still true indeed:
In case you’re healthy, young, Caucasian and willing to
take a risk, you can achieve everything in America. In case
you’re poor, sick, black or old, you’d better not live in
America.  

I hope I didn’t point out too much these horror
scenarios but I think that you’re interested in the
realistic image of America. Anyway it’s different if you
live in that country or are just traveling there as a
tourist. Even as a tourist you notice the social distress
and the social unjustice but you’re involved in a totally
different way if you live there.  

@Z: Driver’s license and Social Security Number 

Quite some of you want to know for
sure what I’m doing all day long when Michael is at work,
working on his computer. At the moment I’m still exploring
the closer area and to deal with the bureaucratic stuff.
You can’t go without two things to libe in America
respectively California: 

1)The social security number 
2) the Californian driver’s license.

Since there is no
national passport in the U.S. you need both the driver’s
license and the SSN to identificate yourself. However, the
problem was that you only get a SSn if you’re either an
American citizen or if you’re as Michael employed in the
U.S. which doesn’t go with me either one. Bad enough you
need the SSN for almost anything ( to get a bank account,
to attend a course at public college, to get the
Californian driver license and so on). You’re no one if you
don’t got the SSN.

In my case we had to do it like this: First of all I had to
pass the theoretical exam. With the certificate of having
passed the  theoretical exam I could apply fort he SSN
since I need that one to be allowed to take the practical
exam. The SSN has been sent to me concluding that I can
finally  take the practical exam for the driver’s license.
My exam is due to February 8th and Michael keeps on teasing
me on a daily basis that I’m not gonna pass it. 

<pic images/socsec.ps Angelika receives the desired SSN>

Both foreigners and American citizen have to pass the exam
fort he Californian driver’s license that move here from a
different state and move to California. Usually Americans
however don’t have to take the practical exam. Those of you
who think the exam is that easy is wrong.I really had to
study for it and the practical exam doesn’t only consist of
driving around on a parking lot but it’s a real exam.
Michael even had to turn within three moves on a street. To
get you an idea of how my theoretical exam was like, I put
a variation of questions right here. (I got the
questionnaire with me. 

1. You are driver of a slow-moving
vehicle on a curvy road with only one lane each direction.
You have  to pull over and stop when it’s safe to do so and
let the other drivers pass if a certain amount of vehicles
is following. 

+ 3 vehicles + 4 vehicles + 5 vehicles

2. When you arrive at a corner (an intersection) with a
flashing yellow light you have to: +stop before passing the
intersection + wait fort he green light + decelerate and
cross the intersection with considerately.

So, would you
have known the answers? The test was in German by the way.
You can choose any language for the theoretical exam. In
San Francisco there’s plenty of people living here but who
aren’t able to speak English. The quarter next to us is
called the Mission and only consists of Spanish speaking
immigrants. If you go to a restaurant there it may happen
quite likely that you have to order in Spanish.

<pic images/dmvtest1.ps The sheet the  auditor hast o fill in during the practical exam.>

<pic images/dmvtest2.ps The backside.>

Actually I go to college for an English course in this
quarter since February 21st. It’s called English as a
second language: It’s provided by the City College. You
could compare the City College to the German
‘Volkshochschule’. A difference though is that it’s also a
kind of vocational school meaning you could also become a
nurse there for instance. The course ‘English as a second
language is for free.  In order to take the course you
first  have to do an orientation test. To do this test was
really an event to me. Including me it was approx.. 30
persons that took the test. Among these 25 were Spanish
speakers that’s why the explanations were translated to
Spanish. Unfortunately the teacher sfrom timest o times
forgot about 5 people in the classroom that didn’t
understand a wordConsequently we often had to ask for an
English explanation. Many of the participants had already
been living in the U.S. for five years and hardly spoke an
English word. The test was kind of a reading test that
means you had to read a story and fill in the gaps in
another text we were given. That is to say the test was
about comprehension and grammar. First of all you really
got an easy text. If you passed this one excellently you
had to take a second, more difficult text. I got a level 8
out of 8, let me floss haha) and I realized that our
education system is frankly not that bad. Due to that I got
achieved level 8 I am allowed to go to any course on City
College, theoretically I could even go to the nursing
course.Though I stick with my English course. They provide
an intensive course for level 7/8 that takes places for two
hours each day from Monday till Friday. The course takes a
semester (from January through May). So I go there every
day. That’s real fun. My class consists of 24 people from
all over the world. (above all it’s Mexico and El
Salvador)’. We work with a real exercise book and we even
get homeworks from times to times. It really is like
school. But I learn a lot and I got people around me. 

<pic images/preyes.ps The Pacific at Point Reyes.>

And what’s going on on weekend time? I have to admit we’re
always on tour: Either we visit San Fracisco or we explore
the area around. That’s how we spent the weekend with
Sylvia and Richard in Napa Valley und did some wine
tastings, another weekend we were driving on highway 1
along the ocean enjoyed the beautiful view on the
landscape. Since we don’t own a car yet we usually rent one
for these trips. That’s also because renting a car in the
U.S. is not that expensive. There’s definitely innumerable
things to do and it’s a lot of fun to go on discovery trips
at the weekends. For the most I love the ocean and I still
can’t realize that it literally lays just in front of our
house.  

What I miss is my job with children and even though
I can volunteer in social networks it’s not comparable to
my job at the DOmus.  

Alright you left-behinds. Keep us in
memory and write a letter. Although San Francisco is very
appealing and exciting sometimes you become (and I do a lot
) homesick. 

Love,

Angelika and Michael  
