San Francisco, 12-12-1997

<pic images/merry.ps It's Christmas time again>

Hello, my dears!

@Z: Interim report after one year

TODO

<em>Angelika</em> 
As the year 1997 comes to an end and Christmas is just around the
corner, I want to delight you once again with a newsletter. Around
this time last year, I started my first newsletter while sitting on
moving boxes, and since then, I've been diligently reporting on our
experiences here. Yes, it's hard to believe, but true, Michael has
been here for over a year now, and I will celebrate my anniversary on
December 30th. During this time, we've experienced quite a lot,
gained new experiences, learned a lot, and have become quite familiar
with the country and its people. Hopefully, you're not horrified at
the thought that we've turned into real Americans, whatever that
means. No, don't worry, I don't walk around with red-painted
fingernails, and Michael doesn't own a cowboy hat, just outrageously
expensive sneakers that he loves to wear day and night (so, truly
American). In general, if you live in California, you're not an
American, but a Californian. Speaking of California, Thomas
Gottschalk (yes, you read that right), who is known to live in
Malibu, wrote a pretty funny article on this topic in Spiegel Spezial
"California," from which I'll quickly quote a few lines:

My mother occasionally grumbles, 'You and your California,' and
reproachfully adds that someone like me, who has neither wandered
through RÃ¼gen nor the Masurian avenues, doesn't know what scenic
beauty is anyway. She also dismisses my repeated point that you can
buy groceries around the clock in Malibu: Anyone who has their
thoughts together during the day doesn't need to buy mustard at two
in the morning... So why? What is the point of Californian existence?
Probably in the nonsense! If the Romans are crazy, this is a
madhouse. Almost nothing makes sense, not the weather, not the
people, not the cars...

By the way, the Spiegel magazine is very worth reading. It includes
very good reports about life in California, a good mix of humorous,
socially critical, and unusual content. So, anyone planning a trip to
visit us should get the magazine.

To return once more to the topic of America versus California versus
San Francisco: When you have settled in San Francisco, you become a
very special kind of species. No matter who we talk to, whether it's
the hairdresser, the cashier at the supermarket, the magazine vendor,
or one of our neighbors, everyone loves their San Francisco and
insists that it is the most beautiful city in the world and that
anyone who lives elsewhere must be crazy. Despite this perhaps
somewhat exaggerated local patriotism, people remain very critical,
and that's what Michael and I like so much. In our opinion, San
Francisco is one of the most liberal places in the USA. Here, you can
really openly discuss the social issues of the USA with almost
anyone. Besides this liberalism, the city also has several other
advantages, such as fantastic views, with the view from our apartment
topping the Top 10 list (those who visited us this year know what I
mean), great restaurants, good weather, people of all skin colors and
cultures, the Golden Gate Bridge, the ocean, funny colorful houses,
crazy shops... you see, it's quite easy to enjoy life here.

Many people have been asking us lately when we will be returning to
Germany. First of all, we still have every intention of doing so. Our
new AOL visa officially lasts until the year 2000, but we are not
planning that far ahead at the moment because the Black Sun situation
has shown us that you never really know what will happen. If
everything continues to go well at AOL, we will definitely be causing
a stir in San Francisco until 1998, and then, as Michael likes to
say, "we'll see." A lot also depends on my situation. At the moment,
I am very satisfied with how I spend my days (courses, working in the
Tenderloin), but at some point, I would like to work properly again,
which means for money.

Many of you have also asked when we will visit Germany again. That is
still uncertain. It mainly depends on whether Michael will come
along, which is rather unlikely at the moment, as 10 days of vacation
a year do not allow for big trips to Germany. We will definitely
spend Christmas and New Year's Eve in San Francisco this year. We
will also have our first Christmas tree together. Michael did roll
his eyes a bit when I suggested this to him and made even more faces
when I revealed that I plan to decorate the Christmas tree in red,
blue, and white (colors of the American flag), but it is a done deal;
we will buy our Christmas tree next weekend. It should be mentioned
in passing that I would, of course, consider anyone who decorates
their Christmas tree in Bavarian colors to be crazy. Our tree will
naturally also have real candles and not an electric string of lights
as is customary here. For this, I had to import German candle
holders, as Americans find candles on the Christmas tree so
suspicious that they refuse to sell these candle holders. I mentioned
my plans with the real candles at a party when Americans asked me how
we celebrate Christmas in Germany, which earned me pitying looks. I
think everyone is firmly expecting that our apartment will burn down.
It is truly astonishing that we are not immediately sued for gross
negligence.

@Z: Christmas in America

<em>Angelika</em> 
It is both amusing and strange that most Americans set up their
Christmas tree long before Christmas, many for example on the first
Sunday of Advent. The tree is then decorated in all its glory. One
could, of course, acknowledge without envy that setting up the tree
early is quite practical, as you get to enjoy it for longer. However,
we will still decorate our tree on December 24th. We will also
celebrate on the 24th; here, Christmas is celebrated on the morning
of the 25th. But we will adopt one American custom: here, people hang
up a so-called stocking (imagine it as a large fabric boot), which is
then filled with small gifts. The stocking is usually hung by the
fireplace. If you don't have a fireplace, like us, another spot will
do just fine.

<pic images/macys.ps The Christmas decorations in the display window
of the Saks Fifth Avenue department store.>

Christmas is quite a big deal here, by the way, even though many
people from other cultures and with different religions live in San
Francisco. Most families celebrate Christmas, even if their religion
centers around a different holiday. At the daycare where I work,
there is an effort to introduce children to the major holidays of
various religions. So, at the moment, we are not only talking about
Christmas but also about the Jewish holiday Hanukkah (Festival of
Lights), which is also celebrated in December, and about Kwanzaa,
which some African American families celebrate as their version of
Christmas. I find all of this incredibly fascinating, and I am a bit
embarrassed about how little I knew about the individual religions
and traditions until now.

<pic images/square.ps Artificial snow at Union Square in San
Francisco>

Otherwise, Christmas is, of course, pure commerce. Everything
glitters and sparkles, and the stores compete with each other with
their window decorations. In front of the toy store FAO Schwarz, for
example, barriers are set up so that customers can line up properly.
If the "rush" for toys is too great, the security person ensures that
customers are only allowed in when other customers leave the store.
In front of this aforementioned store, a grotesque scene played out
on Saturday when we were in the city. A street vendor, who was
selling colorful plastic reindeer antlers (creatures that pull the
sleigh of Santa Claus, the American version of Father Christmas) and
was also wearing one, was handcuffed by a police officer (we don't
know why either). After the officer had done this, he had a nice chat
with the street vendor, and you could have thought they were the best
of friends. And I swear, no Hollywood movie was being filmed there.

<pic images/faoh.ps The arrest of the man with reindeer antlers in
front of the toy store FAO Schwarz>

In the Tenderloin, where I work, the children are currently being
showered with gifts because some companies are making donations in
kind. Unfortunately, everything is concentrated around the Christmas
season, and afterwards, no one really thinks about the children
anymore. In my opinion, it would be more sensible to donate money,
but as it is, the children now have a whole collection of stuffed
animals, which they don't really know what to do with. We also have
to constantly take the children to various Christmas parties. On one
hand, it's quite nice. For example, the children were invited to a
children's ballet, and afterwards, there was lunch for all the kids.
It was really professionally organized. However, the downside is that
the sponsors naturally want to make sure that the public hears about
their generous donation. So, the children have to pose in front of TV
cameras and photographers. At one party, the mayor even showed up at
the end to have his picture taken with some of the children, and then
he quickly disappeared. That's life!

Michael's AOL Christmas party has already taken place, and even I had
a Christmas party at my organization. My Christmas party was
organized specifically as a thank-you celebration for the various
volunteers at the organization. The permanent staff prepared the food
for us, and there were even gifts for us. This is something I really
appreciate about the Tenderloin Childcare Center at the organization:
as a volunteer, you truly feel that the commitment you bring is
highly valued and not taken for granted. On a personal level, I feel
more and more comfortable there, even though I still can't fully
embrace the pedagogical approach, but I am learning a lot and can
take away a lot for myself.

@Z: Courses at UC Berkeley Extension

<em>Angelika</em> 
My courses (photography course, course on African American families)
were a complete success and enriched me greatly, bringing me a lot of
joy. Both courses were at a high level and attended by very
interesting people. I also had to work hard for the courses
(literature study, final photography project, thesis on working with
African American families), which earned me the title of "nerd" from
Michael. The photography course was structured in such a way that we
had to tackle a different task each session, which was discussed in
the class beforehand (e.g., portrait photography, night photography).
The following week, we would look at and discuss the photos together.
So, I spent a lot of time with my camera in San Francisco. Michael
often had to accompany me, which he did without much grumbling. It
was only when he was supposed to be my subject for the portrait
photos that he protested. I then photographed the children from my
facility. To do justice to the photography course, we, of course,
took the photo for our Christmas card ourselves.

The course on African American families dealt a lot with the topic of
racism in America and the living conditions of black families. What I
really liked was the practical approach, for example, what I, as a
white teacher, should consider when working with black families, how
I can reduce distrust, how to deal with my own prejudices, etc. It
must be kept in mind that the topic of black versus white is very
emotionally charged in the USA and that racism is deeply rooted in
American society (as in other countries as well). In my thesis, I
then focused on what should be considered when working with African
American children in a preschool setting. Initially, I was quite
nervous because I had to write the paper in English. Thank God Sylvia
corrected it. And the effort paid off, as I received an A (which
corresponds to a German grade of 1) and I must say that I am very
proud of it. In January, the new courses will start. I plan to take
three (one on child development; one on so-called patchwork families,
meaning families where children from different marriages or
relationships live together; and one on multicultural families).

@Z: Frightening school system

<em>Angelika</em> 
In the course of my classes, I met an American therapist who, in
turn, knew a school principal in Oakland (a city on the other side of
the Bay) and wanted to connect me as a volunteer. So, I had the
opportunity to visit a middle school. The middle school corresponds
to grades 6 through 9. The school was again in a rather run-down and
poor area. I observed in a class with students aged 10 to 12 years.
More than half of the students did not speak English as their first
language, and a third had additional learning difficulties. Most of
the students were Black or immigrants from South America. By the way,
this is a very realistic picture of a public school in a poor
neighborhood. Since these schools usually do not have the best
reputation, more affluent American parents (mostly white) send their
children to private schools. This creates a real vicious cycle: if
you are poor, you can only afford a public school, and if you live in
a bad area, the school is usually correspondingly bad because the
necessary resources are lacking. Critical voices claim that some
schools in the USA are subject to segregation similar to what was
once found in South Africa.

But now back to the school I attended. The class I was in was taught
in a container due to a lack of space. Externally and in terms of the
building, the school made a pretty good impression (except for the
containers). The principal told me that these children actually
needed a special education teacher and additionally someone who
speaks fluent Spanish for the South American students. However,
neither was available. In the USA, students with learning
disabilities are usually integrated into regular schools, but this is
a pseudo-integration, as students with difficulties are often placed
in one class. Depending on the state and funding, these students then
receive special support. However, the reality often looks like what
was described above. When I observed the class, the children were
practicing reading, and it was really shocking how much difficulty
everyone had. None of them, although they were between 10 and 12
years old, could read fluently. Many were completely disinterested
and, for example, had pulled their hoods deep into their faces so
that you couldn't see their faces. About five boys sat there the
whole time with a glove on one hand, even though it was quite warm.
However, I didn't find out if the glove signified gang affiliation,
which is quite possible. Anyone who has seen the movie "Dangerous
Minds" with Michelle Pfeiffer knows roughly what I'm talking about,
although the discipline was surprisingly good, meaning it wasn't
total chaos. Well, in any case, I decided against helping out there
because I find it irresponsible for someone like me, who doesn't
speak English as a native language, to support English lessons (which
would have been my task), even though I was, of course, very tempted.

@Z: Local News

<em>Angelika</em> 
And now I would like to provide you with some information:

First of all, Sylvia and Richard have had an adorable son named
Nicholas Andrew since October 9th. Michael and I visited all three of
them in Portland on Thanksgiving (a major American holiday).

<pic images/shasta.ps On the drive to Portland -- Mount Shasta at the
border with Oregon.>

Secondly, we have new internet addresses. I now have my very own.
They are:

The text you provided appears to be email addresses and does not
require translation. If you have any other text that needs
translation, please provide it, and I'll be happy to help!

My address may sound a bit unusual, but it was very difficult to find
a name that wasn't already taken by the 10,000,000 AOL users. So I
resorted to what my nephew Julian used to call me (THANK YOU, JULE!).

@Z: Neues vom FÃ¼hrerschein" translates to "News about the driver's
license" in English.

<em>Angelika</em> 
And the best joke at the end: I still haven't received my American
driver's license. I've been waiting for almost a year now. After
having to go to the DMV in San Francisco two more times to show my
papers and finally having it clear that everything is in perfect
order, meaning that I am completely legal in the country, I received
another letter from Sacramento, this time stating that my photo could
not be found. So, I trotted to the DMV for the third time, had the
photo taken, and am patiently waiting again. However, I am now sure
that I won't have to take the driving test again because it's not my
fault for the mess. By the way, the manager of the DMV, with whom I
eventually spoke, revealed to me that he has a case where the person
has been waiting for their driver's license since 1995. I'll probably
receive it just before our move to Germany. So be it.

So, dear ones, we wish you all a Merry Christmas. Think of us!

@Z: Christmas party with the company

<em>Michael</em> 
Christmas tree, Christmas tree, Christmas tree. I can't stand hearing
it anymore! First, you drag a green monster into the house, and just
touching the prickly trunk feels disgusting! And after a week, when
all the magic is over, you throw it out. Crunch, crunch, crunch, go
the needles in the vacuum cleaner. It's quite an ordeal.

Yes, my dear friends, it's me! My dear Neanderthals, for this letter
to reach you before Christmas, the galley slaves have to row like
crazy, the brutal stagecoach driver whips the emaciated horses, and
the mail carrier's tongue is already hanging out! Well, well, folks,
you need an email. Preferably, of course, from AOL in Americaaaa. You
can't say it often enough.

Christmas party with AOL was at "Planet Hollywood" in San Francisco.
It's a $15-burger joint, similar to the Hard Rock Cafe, except
instead of musician trophies, they have movie memorabilia hanging
around (there's one in Munich too, I know, I know, but this letter is
also for the rural population and even the North German diaspora).
For the older generation, let me briefly explain that the Hard Rock
Cafe is a place where the lazy youth hang out and recklessly spend
their pocket money on overpriced hamburgers! And as decoration,
there's stuff hanging around that famous musicians have discarded -
guitars and such. Naturally, as a staunch opponent of the Hard Rock
Cafe, I've never been to "Planet Hollywood" in my life, and
surprisingly, right at the entrance, our beloved Arnie Schwarzenegger
jumped out at me from a display case - as Terminator II! "I'm a
Terminator! I was made for destruction!

In any case, AOL had reserved a part of Planet Hollywood with its own
bar and such, where you could order as much as you wanted ("Another
Margarita, please!" "Agaiiinn??"). Fortunately, the subway took us
home.

I bought a new bike! A mountain bike from the brand 'GT', model
'Backwoods', an ultra-cool piece with a super lightweight aluminum
frame that's about 5cm thick, with 21 gears and a snazzy click-shift
system. Now Angelika and I have two bikes and can finally tackle the
long-awaited Golden Gate Bridge crossing next weekend.

@Z: By bike through SF and Silicon Valley

<em>Michael</em> 
I still ride my bike to work every day, and my old bike has been
wheezing heavily, brrr, brrr, good old thing. The rain has stayed
away so far, and "El NiÃ±o," a much-cited weather phenomenon, is
turning out to be a figment of the imagination of underemployed TV
weather guys.

And so every day I head to the train station, down 24th Street, zoom,
and whoosh! Within 500 meters, the yuppie neighborhood we live in
turns into a South American one! Mexican folk music (which, by the
way, has a striking resemblance to Bavarian oom-pah-pah) blares from
car radios, and the few cheap cafes that are already open at this
time are only equipped with white plastic chairs. More people take
the bus, and more homeless people hang around. There's not much
attention paid to litter, with old newspapers sometimes blowing
through the side streets. Now and then, you see an Indigenous person
in a poncho and cowboy hat casually leaning on a street corner--just
like Clint Eastwood in "A Fistful of Dollars." When I then turn left
onto Hampshire Street, which has a nasty pothole in the middle, I
always think of the Munich bus accident--how the bus sank into the
construction pit! Well, it's probably not that bad, but for the
streets of San Francisco, you need thick tread tires, with all the
glass shards and nails lying around!

<pic images/haight.ps It is indeed Ashbury Heights, but it could just
as well be in the Mission.>

Up a small hill, panting, past the UPS building where, at half-past
seven in the morning, the delivery drivers are already bustling
around in their brown uniforms, down the hill, through under the 101
freeway and careful! At the roundabout to Townsend Street, there's
now a police officer on a bicycle making sure everyone stops at the
stop sign. No one there? Step on the gas on the long straight through
the SoMa district (South of Market), where warehouses and art
galleries alternate - that's where the 21st gear comes in handy!

<pic images/soma.ps In the warehouse district "SoMa>

Then: Straight into the train station, put the bike in the specially
designated bike wagon, the conductor keeps an eye on it! They know
each other. Then quickly head to the coffee vendor to get a "Small
Coffee" and a Mexican cinnamon roll, hop on the train, and off we go!

<pic images/22.ps A sticker indicates where the bicycle needs to go
out.>

Here's the translation to English:

"Laptop out, tinkered around or read through the magazines! Of
course, only my own articles, the others just write nonsense anyway,
giggle! Recently, by the way, I've been listening to cassettes by
Anthony Robbins on the Walkman. 'Personal Power II', it's an American
motivational series, like how to become a millionaire in 14 days or
something. Super funny!

<pic images/cal.ps In the bike car of the Caltrain from San Francisco
to San Mateo>

Whoops, next station Hillsdale! Quick, get out with the bike - I'm
losing it! Some idiot blocked me in again! You see, everyone has a
sign on their bike indicating where they're going. Bayshore, Palo
Alto, San Jose, you name it. In a bike rack on the train, there are
four bikes parked. To ensure that the person who needs to get out
first doesn't have to turn the whole wagon upside down to get to
their bike, people park their bikes so that the one who needs to get
out first has their bike at the front. Did I mention everyone has a
sign on their bike? Not everyone! M.S., for example, has a very
inconspicuous sticker "San Francisco - Hillsdale" on his, which no
one notices! But some people don't have any stickers at all. If
someone new comes into the wagon, wants to park their bike, and has
to choose between several bike racks where the front bike has no
label, they shout loudly in the wagon, "Where's the red Specialized
going??" meaning they want to know where the red Specialized racing
bike and its owner are headed. If the owner is paying attention, they
might shout back, "It's going to Belmont!" and everyone knows. If
there's no response, the bike must belong to Mr. Schilli, who is
listening to a Walkman or otherwise mentally absent. The bike gets
mercilessly blocked in... Yes, out, out, out of the train, just made
it! Phew! Now it's through the Hillsdale Shopping Center, which is a
huge mall with mega department stores like Mervyn's, Macy's, or
Sears. The first saleswomen are heading to work.

The area becomes quieter as it goes through the single-family home
colony in San Mateo. This is typical middle-class America: bungalows
with 10 square meters of lawn in front, neatly mowed by Mexican
laborers. A double garage is the minimum. About 80% of all American
houses outside the big cities look like this. In the morning,
Americans like to open the garage door and let the car warm up while
they are still having breakfast, since gasoline costs next to
nothing.

Up to the hill where the AOL building stands! The mountain is about
as high as the Zugspitze, and so steep that you have to use the first
gear (which means something on a mountain bike!), and I wonder every
day how much longer I can keep doing this health-wise. But at the
top, it's as quiet as on Mount Everest, the view is fantastic, and I
take a quick look at the bay, humming softly "I lost my heart ... in
San Francisco." And off we go! Into the office, where a few guys and
gals are already sitting in their cubicles, and it's "Man, how are
you?", "Hey buddy, how's it goin'?", "Man, I tell ya ...".

Computer on! I've never seen the "Silicon Graphics Challenge S" that
I'm working on - it's located in Virginia, on the East Coast! And the
work begins ... hacking away ... yippee!

So, dear German Brothers & Sisters, I hope you enjoyed the story.
Until next year!

Take care, all the best, take it easy! Angelika & Michael
