San Francisco, 02-05-1998

<pic images/ggb.ps Two locals with bicycles on the Golden Gate Bridge>

Dear friends!

@Z: San Francisco In The Rainy Season

<em>Angelika</em> 
Since it seems that the rainy season has just started in San
Francisco (so much for "it never rains here") and we can hardly
venture outside, I thought I'd update you all with the latest news
from here. So, grab your reading glasses, get cozy in the corner of
the sofa, turn off the TV, and enjoy:

First of all, let me tell you about our Christmas celebration. Our
Christmas tree was, of course, the most beautiful ever. Buying the
tree went off without a hitch. Michael did grimace painfully when he
had to shell out $45 for the tree, but he was in a good mood again
right away because, for an extra $10, the tree was delivered to our
apartment. This meant he didn't have to carry the tree over two hills
or, worse, take it on the streetcar, which would surely have been
newsworthy here. Once the tree was finally in our apartment, we
realized it was quite large for our place, even though we had bought
one of the smallest (Americans do love everything a bit oversized).
As a result, we first had to rearrange our apartment. I tried not to
groan or complain, otherwise, Michael would surely have commented,
"You were the one who insisted on having a tree!" Despite these minor
difficulties, the tree shone and glowed in American colors on
Christmas Eve, and the fire department didn't have to be called, even
with the real candles. My overly cautious electrical engineer, who
tinkers with high-voltage lines without fear, had placed a bucket of
water in our bathroom just in case. Everything went wonderfully.
Initially, we were a bit worried that we might feel a bit lonely
under our tree, but then we received so much lovely mail, calls, and
packages that we didn't feel so far away anymore. To everyone who
thought of us and didn't shy away from the horrendous postage and
astronomical phone charges, we say a special "Thank you!" We truly
appreciate it. On Christmas Eve, we had fondue, as per old tradition,
and on Christmas Day, we couldn't resist getting real Nuremberg
sausages and sauerkraut from the German store "Speckmanns" around the
corner, even though we hardly ever ate them in Munich. But that's how
it is when you spend Christmas "abroad" (sniff!). By the way, the
store is also very popular with Americans, and the absolute hit is
German "Negerküsse" (unfortunately, I don't know the new politically
correct term for this treat).

@Z: By Bicycle over the Golden Gate Bridge.

<pic images/mhead.ps Angelika is not racing, but rather enjoying the view.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
We have already completed our Golden Gate Bridge crossing by bicycle.
We did it in bright sunshine, so the bridge was glowing in its most
beautiful red. To avoid too many hills and dangerous roads (that's
not for me), we first took our bikes on the BART (subway in San
Francisco) and went to the Embarcadero (anyone who has been to San
Francisco knows where that is; for those unfamiliar: it's a street
that runs right along the water). And then we continued along the
water towards the Golden Gate, always keeping our eyes on the bridge,
Alcatraz, and the boats on the bay.

In such moments, it becomes clear why no one ever wants to leave this
city, despite the acute risk of earthquakes--it's just that
beautiful. On the bridge itself, we even had our own bike lane. On
weekends, both sidewalks of the bridge are open; one is for
pedestrians, and the other is for cyclists. However, this leads to
cyclists speeding so fast that it really made me anxious. After all,
I wanted to enjoy the view and not participate in the Tour de France.

And so that you also know how we felt during the crossing, I will
quickly quote John Steinbeck: "Then I drove over the great arch of
the bridge suspended by cables and was in the city. It had remained
the City I remembered, so confident in its size that it could afford
to be friendly.

<pic images/ggb2.ps View from the bridge over to Marin Headlands>

On New Year's Eve, we attended a gala at the prestigious Fairmont
Hotel. The hotel is well-known in Germany because the American series
"Hotel" was filmed there, which also aired on German television for a
long time (something similar to "Traumschiff" but without the ship).
There was a fantastic meal, champagne galore, a musical show, and
utterly ridiculous-looking party hats that everyone enthusiastically
put on just before midnight (not us, of course). We had a great time,
although we were a bit disappointed that the party ended shortly
after midnight while we were still in a festive mood. Well, you can't
have everything. By the way, there's a funny tradition here on New
Year's Eve. In the morning, office workers in downtown San Francisco
throw their old calendar pages out the window. Since most offices are
in skyscrapers, it's particularly impressive.

<pic images/newyear.ps New Year's Eve at the Fairmont Hotel, where we let a ball photographer sell us this photo for thirty dollars.>

@Z: Dim Sum and Other Delicacies

TODO

<em>Angelika</em> 
Due to the bad weather (does El Nino actually exist?), we have had
to move our weekend activities indoors to places with a roof over our
heads. So, we've been visiting various museums and trying out new
restaurants. San Francisco and the entire Bay Area is truly a
culinary hotspot, and it's hard to decide where to go because there's
so much choice. We thought it would be smart to visit restaurants
that we wouldn't easily find in Germany. So, we first tried Ethiopian
cuisine, which was good, cheap, and fun. The restaurant is called
"Blue Nile" and is an absolute insider tip. You sit in dimly lit
cubicles separated by wooden bead curtains and eat with your fingers.
You tear off a piece of Ethiopian bread called "Injera" (imagine it
like a pancake) and use it to scoop up the vegetables or meat. You
drink honey wine with it, which is a real hit. Another culinary
highlight: The world's best Dim Sum restaurant on Geary Street. Those
of you who have traveled to Asia will know what Dim Sum is. Legend
has it (or rather, my restaurant guide claims) that Dim Sum
originated because Chinese businessmen loved spending hours in tea
houses to conduct their business. Since one tends to get hungry
during this, the tea houses began offering small snacks. This is
still done today as follows: Waiters push small serving carts through
the restaurant, and you simply take what you like, with each cart
offering something different. There are clams, crabs, or mushrooms
wrapped in noodle dough, called dumplings, spring rolls, mango cream,
etc. It's definitely really good! Now that your mouth is probably
watering, I'll end my excursion into the land of gourmets. On a side
note, it's worth mentioning that Michael has enrolled in a course
starting mid-February to learn proper wine tasting. It covers
European and Californian wines. Since we have the Napa and Sonoma
Valleys (wine regions) right on our doorstep and have already done
some wine tastings, Michael has developed the ambition to learn how
to distinguish a good wine from a bad one. The era of supermarket
wine is definitely over.

@Z: The German Film Festival in San Francisco

<em>Angelika</em> 
Recently, we had the opportunity once again to admire GÃ¶tz George,
Mario Adorf, Gudrun Landgrebe, and their peers here at the cinema. It
was the German Film Festival, organized annually by the
Goethe-Institut in San Francisco. The festival primarily showcases
films by young German-speaking filmmakers. However, this year's
closing film was by Helmut Dietl, who is, as we know, neither new nor
unknown. It was set in an Italian restaurant in Munich, and of
course, we couldn't miss it. Although the film didn't exactly blow us
away, it was amusing to see a German film (with English subtitles)
and the Munich scenery again. We noticed how many naked people were
shown (GÃ¶tz George, of course, had to show off his physique once
again to prove how well he's maintained himself). The American woman
next to me was quite taken aback (by the amount of nudity, not GÃ¶tz
George's physique). In local films, such scenes are usually only
subtly hinted at. This is where American prudery and strange double
standards come into full play. After all, no one seems to mind that
Bill Clinton's sex life is being publicly and as sensationally as
possible discussed at the moment.

Here, Michael still needs to add something: In the cinema, there was
also a "typically German" attraction (at least that's what the
Americans think) - an organ. An older gentleman with a helmet haircut
played German melodies on it before the film. Otherwise, you felt
like you were in Germany in that cinema: "People spoke German!" San
Francisco is really teeming with this kind of people. And when
Michael commented on the gentleman's hairstyle with "Wow, he looks
like an old Nazi!", Angelika quickly silenced him.

@Z: American television

<em>Angelika</em> 
Regarding American media, I've wanted to make a few general remarks
on this topic for a long time. First of all, the news on television
should be mentioned. World news or international news only appears
under two conditions: either the USA has to be somehow involved, such
as in the collision of the American military plane with the cable car
in Italy or the current conflict between Saddam Hussein and Bill
Clinton, or an absolutely media-effective catastrophe has occurred,
like the earthquake in Italy some time ago. Otherwise, the majority
of the news deals with domestic politics or local matters, where one
sometimes doubts the editor's judgment regarding the selection of
these news stories. Not too long ago, the top news story, which was
presented first, was that a pet pig got lost on the Bay Bridge. At
first, I thought it was a joke because I couldn't believe that a
somewhat serious TV station would dare to sell something like that as
the news of the day, but it was indeed true. When you also consider
that many Americans use TV news as their sole source of information,
it's no wonder they know hardly anything about Europe. Of course, TV
news is constantly interrupted by commercial breaks, which is really
extremely annoying. You are familiar with this by now through private
channels in Germany, and if I remember correctly, there's already a
commercial break before the weather report on the Heute news program.
You just have to imagine it even more extreme here. Recently, for
example, the movie "Dead Poets Society" was on TV. Due to the
commercial breaks, the film lasted a full three hours (I would
estimate the normal runtime to be about 90 minutes). Michael and I
are now so annoyed by the commercial interruptions that we are
increasingly renting videos or going to the cinema, where, funnily
enough, there is no advertising at all.

To return once more to the news: On one hand, as mentioned, there is
hardly any international news, while on the other hand, other events
are followed almost obsessively, such as the aforementioned alleged
sex affair of Bill Clinton. The regular TV program is even
interrupted for this. Last week, these interruptions made me quite
nervous because, alongside the scandal involving Clinton, the
likelihood of a military strike against Iraq was increasing. With
each interruption, I thought we were on the brink of another Gulf
War, but in reality, it was just another political figure being
interviewed about whether Clinton had an affair with the intern or
not. Some cynics claim that Clinton is only delaying the military
strike so that he cannot later be accused of starting a war to
distract from the Monica Lewinsky affair. Ironically, there is
currently a movie with Dustin Hoffman on exactly this topic ("Wag the
Dog"). In the film, the president starts a war to cover up an affair.
The reporting on the execution of Karla Faye Tucker was also
particularly tasteless. The wait for the execution became a media
spectacle par excellence. One can only be glad that it is not yet
allowed to broadcast an execution live. Nevertheless, CNN and NBC
tried to extract as much as they could. Reporters camped outside the
prison and described in detail how the execution process would
proceed if the appeal was denied. The transition to the commercial
break was made with the words: "Only 40 minutes until the execution."
It sounded like a countdown before a rocket launch, truly grotesque.
I don't know to what extent you have followed the background of this
media spectacle in Germany. Karla Faye Tucker received media
attention mainly because she was to be the first woman executed in
Texas. Texas holds the leading position in a very sad statistic: it
is the state with the most executions per year in the USA, although
until now, no woman was among them. The dispute between supporters
and opponents of the death penalty regarding Karla Faye Tucker can be
summarized roughly as follows: The conservative supporters suddenly
found it morally reprehensible to execute a woman, especially since
she had converted in prison from a former drug-addicted prostitute
who murdered two people in a drug frenzy to an active Christian, a
fact that never played a role for the executed men. The opponents of
the death penalty argued that if one supports the death penalty,
there should be no gender differences. It quickly became clear that
Karla Tucker only became a media sensation because she was white,
female, attractive, and a converted Christian. What I find
particularly unfortunate about this story is that the media did not
take the opportunity to discuss the death penalty in general and
reflect on how a democratic state can even consider the death penalty
a legitimate legal means of punishing people.

Even in American daily newspapers, one is not exactly bombarded with
news from Europe, but there are definitely more foreign reports than
on television. Additionally, there are, of course, newspapers like
the New York Times, which report in detail on all kinds of world and
foreign events. So, I was quite surprised to find a detailed report
in the Chronicle (a daily newspaper from San Francisco) about the
Pope's letter to the German Bishops' Conference regarding Catholic
pregnancy counseling centers and the issuance of the much-debated
counseling certificate. This might also be because there is a strict
separation between church and state in the USA, and Americans find a
strong entanglement between church and state both dangerous and
highly suspicious. Speaking of abortion, around the same time as the
"Pope counseling center story" in Germany, the topic of "abortion"
was also a hot topic here. This year marks the 25th anniversary of
the U.S. Supreme Court's decision that abortions in the first
trimester of pregnancy are legal in the USA. Despite its legality,
the topic of "abortion" is also discussed very emotionally here.
Additionally, for several years, there have been fanatical
anti-abortion activists who carry out bomb attacks on abortion
clinics. Just last week, there was another such attack.

<pic images/merced.ps Once again on bicycles through the city, here
at Lake Merced>

@Z: Visiting the workplace

<em>Angelika</em> 
So, enough with the serious topics for now. Since Michael entertained
you the last two times with stories from his AOL life, he won't be
giving his two cents on the state of the nation today, as he is
currently working on the second, revised edition of his book and is a
bit stressed. The edition needs to be submitted to the publisher by
mid-March. I hope your disappointment is limited; you'll have to make
do with me. Besides, this time I can contribute a story on the topic
of AOL myself. Some time ago, Michael and I rented a car again to
drive around the area, and on this occasion, we also went to San
Mateo, where Michael showed me where he works. And it really is as he
described it. A pool table in the break room, where Michael takes his
creative breaks every day, which has led him to become the world's
best pool player (or so he claims), and of course the famous cubicles
(small offices created by dividing the space with partitions). Since
we were at AOL on a holiday, I unfortunately couldn't meet Michael's
colleagues, but the personal decoration of the cubicles said a lot
about each individual, even though they weren't present. One looked
like a church, with a huge Madonna hanging over the computer, and
another had turned his cubicle into a candy store. There were at
least six candy jars with various sweets. Only Michael's was very
tidy, but he also wants to give his cubicle a personal touch as soon
as possible. It will be interesting to see what he does with it.

And now, finally, the relieving news: After more than a year, I am
the proud owner of a California driver's license. Hooray!!!!

With this good news, I conclude today's newsletter. Take care and get
in touch!

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

