San Francisco, 06-03-1999

Hello, dear ones who stayed at home!

Here we are again: Your diligent reporters from the USA -- a friendly
"Yeeeee Haawwwww!" from us at the start of the June newsletter!
Today, Angelika is kicking things off, here we go:

<pic images/photo.ps A photographer is raging in the living room.>

@Z: Units of measurement and weight

<em>Angelika</em> 
Since I currently have a three-week semester break and can't spend
all my time in the darkroom at the University of Berkeley (Figure 1
shows the mess that arises in the living room when I organize my
works), I want to use this break to entertain you with some stories
from everyday life in the "land of unlimited possibilities." I've
noticed that we've never talked about the struggle (especially my
struggle) with American measurement and weight units. As many of you
might know, the metric system is not used here; instead, you
encounter exotic units like "inches," "feet," "yards," "ounces,"
"gallons," etc. "Square inches" or "square feet" are particularly
charming variations. It's also incomprehensible to us why exactly
three "feet" should make a "yard." In everyday life, I simply have
the problem that I have absolutely no idea what these measurements
and weights represent. Even the question about my height can only be
answered with a tired shrug. I can look it up on my driver's license:
5'8'', which is "5 feet, 8 inches," or 1.73 meters (Note from
Michael: I think the lady is exaggerating a bit here).

Now you might be thinking that the whole thing can't be that
difficult, since you just have to remember a few mnemonic devices for
conversion. Far from it! To convert, you actually have to use more
complicated mathematical operations. For example, you can convert
"inches" to centimeters by multiplying the "inches" by 2.54. If you
want to know what "ounces" are in grams, you have to multiply the
"ounces" by 28.35. I tell you, it's madness! Admittedly, there are
some units that are a bit easier to convert, like "feet" to meters
(you have to divide by about 3); that's the only thing I can
remember. By the way, don't be misled by the American "pounds" unit.
Unfortunately, it doesn't correspond to our pound, as one might
assume. It's either more or less. I've already forgotten which.

I also find it particularly amusing when Americans start dividing the "inch"
into halves, quarters, or eighths and suddenly talk about a "quarter inch."
This doesn't fit at all with the otherwise so practically minded American. In
their language, any simplification is allowed, but they stick meticulously to
the units of measurement.  Only in some areas is the metric system already used
(e.g., in medicine and aeronautics). Now, one last thing on this topic: Of
course, temperature is not measured in Celsius but in Fahrenheit, which means I
never know how warm it actually is. Water freezes here at 32 degrees. To
convert Fahrenheit to Celsius, you first have to subtract 32 from the
Fahrenheit and then divide by about 2. Makes sense, right? Good thing you can't
rely on the weather forecast in San Francisco anyway. This is due neither to
Fahrenheit nor Celsius, but simply to the fact that the weather can change by
the minute. The "layered look" is therefore always recommended in San
Francisco. Ah, at least you can rely on something.

@Z: Automated Telephone Services

<em>Angelika</em> 
And there's something else you have to deal with here in everyday
life at every turn. I'm talking about "automated phone directories."
By this, I don't mean automated services you can call to check the
time, movie schedules, or the weather report, but rather the
phenomenon you encounter here lately when you call certain government entities,
like the city administration or the waterworks, but also
banks, health insurance companies, large medical practices, airlines,
cinemas, basically almost anything that isn't a private call.

When you do
this, you don't immediately get a person on the line (as is hopefully
still common in Germany) who can then connect you or give you an
extension, but instead, you get an automated message informing you of
the options available and prompting you to press certain numbers on
your phone. Usually, it starts with the option to choose (at least
here in California) the language in which you want to hear the whole
mess, typically English or Spanish. When you call an airline, for
example, you might hear the tinny voice saying: "If you want information
about the arrival time of a plane, press 1. If you want to book a
flight, press 2. If you want to cancel a flight, press 3. If you want
to reconfirm a flight, press 4. If you want information about our
frequent flyer program, press 5. If none of these apply to you, press
the * key."

The problem is that you usually have to listen to
everything, and you often forget which number you were supposed to
press. No problem, because at the end, it always says: "If you want
to hear this message again, press #." As if you'd have nothing else to
do! Now you might be wondering if there's a trick to bypass the whole
thing. There actually is. You can simply pretend that you don't have
a touch-tone phone yet, and are still on one with a rotary dial, and
with this, the connection would naturally break if you started
dialing wildly. However, this trick doesn't save time either, because
you usually end up on hold forever and have to listen to music before
you finally get a person on the line. Besides, this trick probably
won't work much longer because no one has rotary phones anymore.
Since I'm sure that these "automated phone directories" will soon
come to Germany as well, you now have something to look forward to.

@Z: Germophobia

<em>Angelika</em> 
And while we're having fun, I can think of another interesting little
episode from American everyday life. One of the stereotypes that
Germans are always associated with is that they have a bit of a
cleanliness obsession and always carry a bottle of disinfectant with
them (I'm exaggerating a bit). I'm not going to discuss whether this
is actually true. I can only say that Americans are in no way
inferior to this phenomenon in one respect, as they have a tremendous
fear of bacteria and germs of all kinds, and this fear has led to
some grotesque consequences.

It's not only considered polite to
cancel an invitation (even among friends) if you have a cold, but you
also don't blow your nose at the table; instead, you excuse yourself
and do it at a discreet distance, preferably turned away from the
table. In restaurants, this often means you really have to go to the
restroom to blow your nose, as you're surrounded by people at the table. However,
cutting your nails in public is completely okay, go figure!

Naturally, all sorts of products are sold here that kill bacteria. A
disinfectant enthusiast would find America to be a true paradise.
There are dishwashing liquids that kill bacteria, cleaning sprays
that simultaneously wipe out every living germ on the continent
(other health side effects can be safely ignored), and a type of hand
cream designed solely to eliminate bacteria when you can't wash your
hands. It feels like a new product comes out every week to help in
the battle against bacteria. Recently, there's even a laundry
detergent that kills 99.9% of bacteria (at least that's what the
advertisement claims) and a dishwasher with an extra button to press
that starts the mechanism to wage war against bacteria. The first
time I saw the ad for this dishwasher, I was rolling on the floor
laughing. The trick of just using super-hot water hasn't caught on
here yet, so they tend to resort to chemical solutions, as
environmental awareness is still somewhat lacking.

You might be thinking now that I'm taking quite a lot of liberties
and that I have no right to criticize the American way of life. Rest
assured, I am aware that every American who has ever been to Germany
also has a thousand and one stories that have caused them great
astonishment or amusement. We've had many laughs with our American
friend Anne, who often visits Germany, when she starts to share her
experiences from these trips with us. Speaking of foreigners'
perceptions of Germany: there is a small book titled "Mein
Deutschlandbild" ("My Image of Germany"), published by the German
Academic Exchange Service (ISBN: 3-87192-688-4), in which foreigners
who have studied in Germany for some time humorously and seriously
describe their impressions of the country. It's a highly recommended
read!

@Z: U.S. Store Chains

<em>Angelika</em> 
For a long time, I've wanted to talk about American cities. We've
often reported that San Francisco, in many ways, is not the typical
American metropolis, and those of you who have never been to America
might find that a bit surprising. To get straight to the point:
American cities (except for San Francisco, New York, New Orleans,
Boston -- forgive me if I've forgotten a city) all look the same,
meaning they are quite boring and monotonous. This is partly because
they are all laid out like a grid, with miles of parallel streets
that are usually numbered for simplicity. This design might be
practical, but it also leads to monotony.

In American cities, you
typically find skyscrapers with offices in downtown (city center)
and, if you're lucky, a huge shopping mall. You search in vain for
nice little cafes or shops and a marketplace. Surrounding downtown,
connected by many highways, are residential areas, which are usually
designed according to a pattern: single-family homes with double
garages and, again, shopping malls. You search in vain for a
corner bakery. To go shopping at the mall, you naturally have to use
a car. What I find particularly dreadful is that these shopping malls
are almost entirely made up of chains, meaning that no matter which
American city you're in, it's the same stores that generally look
exactly the same (inside and out).

The chain phenomenon even extends
to chain restaurants. A well-known chain is "Olive Garden," which
serves Italian food. Perhaps that's why Americans move so often,
because despite changing locations, everything stays the same, at
least in terms of the city's appearance. San Francisco and New York
stand out because they break away from this monotony and uniformity,
with many small neighborhoods that have their own unique character
(e.g., Chinatown or the Mexican district of San Francisco, the
"Mission"). Here, you find unique restaurants, small boutiques, and
shops that are still privately owned and haven't been swallowed by a
chain, as well as independent bookstores or newsstands. To keep it
this way, strong neighborhood associations have formed in San
Francisco, trying by all means to prevent chains from settling in
their neighborhoods. Unfortunately, they don't always succeed, as
rents in San Francisco are currently so high that only chains can
afford them.

This trend, for example, led to our beloved "Bakers of
Paris," which sold the world's best croissants, having to throw in
the towel. Truly sad! By the way, if you want to identify yourself as
a true San Francisco resident, you must avoid the coffeehouse chain
"Starbucks." "Starbucks" originally comes from Seattle and started
very small. Nowadays, there's a "Starbucks" on every other corner. It
must be noted positively that "Starbucks" has managed to make good
coffee, cappuccino, espresso, etc., available in America. And anyone
who, like me, loves their cup of coffee and has had to endure the
extremely watery coffee (1 coffee bean per liter of water and kept warm
for at least an hour) that was common everywhere ten years ago knows
what I'm talking about. Nevertheless, as a San Franciscan (unless
you're traveling and there's nothing else), you don't go to
"Starbucks," but to the independent coffee houses based in San
Francisco (e.g., "Martha"). It should be noted in passing that the
boycott also has to do with the fact that "Starbucks" originally
comes from Seattle, and the Seattle-San Francisco relationship is
roughly like that of Northern Germany vs. Bavaria. Well! Of course, I
know that the described chain phenomenon has long since entered
German cities. Therefore, I can only advise every city planner or
chain lover: If you want to see a deterrent example of a totally
American city, go to San Jose, an hour's drive south of San
Francisco.

TODO

@Z: Weapons and violence

<em>Angelika</em> 
And since I'm in the mood today to address quintessentially American
phenomena (after all, in our last newsletter, I shared my impressions
from my visit to Germany), I must write about the massacre in which
16 people lost their lives, carried out by two teenagers using
firearms at an American high school in Littleton. This incident
caused a real uproar across the country, likely because it wasn't an
isolated case; such often more or less planned shootings have sadly
become a part of everyday life at American high schools. Following
Littleton, there were several incidents where students in other U.S.
cities went to school armed and shot indiscriminately, injuring
people--so-called copycats. After the Littleton incident, the
American media feverishly searched for the causes of this increase in
violence, digging up everything from the decline in values, the
internet, the portrayal of violence in the media, overwhelmed
parents, and the easy access to weapons. It should be mentioned in
passing that while all the reporters condemned the excessive
portrayal of violence in the media, they relentlessly showed images
of blood-covered teenagers or mercilessly interviewed completely
shocked students. Or President Clinton tearfully mourned the victims
of the shooting in a speech, while at the same time, CNN displayed
which targets in Kosovo had been successfully bombed. This is what
one might call first-class double standards. I am firmly convinced
that the increase in the propensity for violence among children and
adolescents is a worldwide phenomenon (at least in most
industrialized nations), and the causes are certainly multifaceted.
However, I am always fascinated by how lightly the arming of
teenagers in the USA is taken and how deeply rooted the belief is
that everyone has the right to own a weapon, even though teenagers
are disproportionately often victims of gun violence: Teenagers up to
15 years old in the USA have up to twelve times the risk of being
killed by a gun compared to children in the 25 most industrialized
countries combined. Additionally, the gun industry lobby in America
is about as powerful as the automotive industry in Germany.
Naturally, after the Littleton incident, there is renewed discussion
about tightening gun laws, but it tends to focus more on the details
(e.g., raising the minimum age from 18 to 21 or making access to
certain types of weapons more difficult) rather than challenging the
fundamental right to own weapons. In America, it has become easier
for a teenager to buy a gun than cigarettes or alcohol.

Here's the translation to English:

"So much for serious topics -- Ring free for the jokester Michael:
shall we let him in??? Let him in! Toot toot toot...

@Z: Bay to Breakers" is already in English. It is the name of an
annual footrace in San Francisco, California, that starts at the
northeast end of the city near the San Francisco Bay and ends at the
Great Highway, adjacent to the Pacific Ocean breakers.

<em>Michael</em> 
On May 16th, as on every third Sunday in May, the traditional
Bay-To-Breakers city race took place in San Francisco. The name of
the twelve-kilometer race comes from the fact that the runners start
at the shores of the San Francisco Bay (made famous by the song
"Sittin' on the Dock of the Bay"), run across the entire city, past a
multitude of Victorian houses, sprint through Golden Gate Park, and
finally arrive exhausted at the ocean with its breaking waves
(Breakers). San Francisco is famously located at the tip of a
peninsula, with the Bay on its right and the Pacific Ocean on its
left. Twelve kilometers is, of course, a breeze for reasonably active
athletes, but the race owes its fame to the amusing antics of runners
who dress up, and some old '68ers even like to run naked, although
that's technically prohibited by the police, but who lets themselves
be prohibited from anything in San Francisco! But don't worry, our
friend Anthony and I ran in normal sports attire, and we lined up
with 73,000 other runners at the starting line. At exactly eight
o'clock in the morning, the starting gun was fired (Figure 2). In the
front row stood the qualified runners, who were allowed to start
immediately, and then the crowd slowly began to move. Very slowly! It
took a full half hour before Anthony and I could finally start.
Angelika, who had positioned herself a few hundred meters further to
take photos, was already wondering where we were, but quickly pressed
the shutter, and the result is shown in Figure Number 3. If you
subtract the waiting time from our official result time of 1:53:36
(if you don't believe it, you can check it on...
<LINK>https://www.athlinks.com/Events/133780/Courses/182625/Bib/15017
|The translation from German to English is: "the Internet|San
Francisco Bay to Breakers 1999 results</LINK>
When you subtract the time spent reading, you end up with
approximately one hour and 20 minutes, which is not exactly
world-class for 12 kilometers, but it's quite okay for a hilly
course. I finished in 21,643rd place, unfortunately not enough for a
medal, as the winner, the Kenyan Lazarus Nyakeraka, only needed 34
minutes and 11 seconds -- but he didn't have to wait as long at the
start!

<pic images/btbair.ps 73,000 people run Bay-To-Breakers.>

<pic images/btb2.ps Two tough sportsmen in pursuit of the gold medal>

@Z: Neues Auto" translates to "New Car" in English.

<em>Michael</em> 
And finally, there's a picture of our new car! It continues to drive
very well; we've already put 6,000 kilometers on it since the
purchase date. Figure 4 shows me parking it on the steep 23rd Street
just around the corner from us. The clutch is smoking there.

<pic images/auto.ps The Acura on a steep slope on 23rd Street.
Vroom!>

As we were recently driving back from a weekend trip to Point Reyes,
we passed by the "Buckeye Roadhouse" restaurant and decided to
quickly stop for dinner. Unlike previous visits, there was now a
liveried employee waiting there, and a sign indicated "Valet
Parking." By the way, Americans like to pronounce "valet" in their
inimitable way as "Wuh-layyyy" in a sort of pseudo-French manner.
This is an American custom typically found only in very expensive
restaurants, where you drive your car right up to the entrance
(preferably in a Ferrari), and after a uniformed guy opens the door,
you get out and leave the key in the car. The valet then gets into
the car, and while the owners head into the restaurant, the employee
drives the car to a nearby parking lot. When you come out of the
restaurant, the valet rushes to get the car, drives it up, quickly
jumps out, and lets the owner get in with the engine running, then
there's a tip, and off you go home. Unfortunately, our Ferrari is
still at the dealer, so we unexpectedly got to experience this valet
circus with our Acura, which hadn't been washed in three months and
had paint peeling off the roof. I was so surprised to suddenly see
the valet sign that I almost backed up, but the guy waved me over
friendly, opened the door, and -- what a laugh we had -- I was
wearing shorts and was barefoot! The valet was very friendly and said
we should take our time to get ready, and then he would park the car
for us, plus the valet parking was "complimentary," meaning free.
Well then! So we did, and after we had a nice dinner, he promptly
brought the car back for us -- just like for Mr. & Mrs. Millionaire!
Unfortunately, we didn't have a travel guide with us, so we didn't
know how much to tip in such a situation, but the gentleman was
visibly pleased with the five dollars I gave him; we read up on it at
home: two would have been appropriate. Every day is an adventure.

@Z: Shopping on the internet

<em>Michael</em> 
An old computer geek like me naturally has to keep his hardware
constantly up to date, so I recently bought a CD burner. Yawn, yawn,
the computer whizzes among you will say, I've had one of those for
five years! Sure, sure, but only recently did the devices drop below
the $300 mark, and I just had to jump on it. A CD burner is a device
that allows you to make your own music CDs--just like back in your
student days when you compiled your favorite songs and recorded them
onto a cassette using a recorder. Today, you insert a blank CD (cost:
about a dollar) into a CD burner, use a computer program to read
tracks from your favorite discs, and then let the computer burn the
CD. It uses a laser beam to "burn" the data onto the blank CD.
Afterwards, you have a CD that's just as good as one from the
store--only with songs you've compiled yourself.

The purchase, however, was associated with some obstacles, because I
naturally ordered with a credit card from an online store -- since
it's cheaper and you don't have to pay sales tax -- which sent the
package by mail. After unpacking and installing the burner from
Yamaha, it turned out that the CDs produced with the burner had
errors. What to do? A call to Yamaha, and the guys there told me to
exchange the item. But how do you exchange something that you didn't
buy in a store, but from an online retailer? A call there, and I got
an ROM number (Return-of-Merchandise), which I wrote on the cardboard
box I had kept, and sent the whole thing back to the virtual store,
which promptly credited the amount back to my credit card. Then the
process started all over again: This time I decided on a burner from
another company (HP), ordered again online, and when the UPS man
brought the package to the front door, the joy was great, because the
CDs produced were of excellent quality, and now I burn day and night!

@Z: Soccer in America

<em>Michael</em> 
Now to recreational sports. For two and a half years, with one
exception--when Angelika's brother Bernd visited with Julian and we
played soccer in Dolores Park--I haven't played soccer. So I was
pleased to hear that there is a soccer team at Netscape. The email
system there has a special distribution list, soccer@netscape.com
(soccer is what they call football in America), where people arrange
during the day to kick around on a nearby field in the evening--quite
extraordinary in soccer-hostile America, where mainly baseball (the
one with the wooden bat and the small ball and the people standing
around on the field chewing huge pieces of gum) and American football
(the one with people in armor-like costumes and helmets fighting over
an egg-shaped ball) are popular, and at most some immigrant Mexicans
can play soccer reasonably well. The rest couldn't even score a
penalty in an empty goal. Just like in Germany, no one knows how many
strikes the hitter is allowed in baseball before he's "out." Or do
they? Does anyone among our educated newsletter readers actually
know? The crÃ¨me de la crÃ¨me of German intellectuals (ahem!)?

ATTENTION: Starting today, each newsletter will include a question to
test your knowledge of America and distinguish "Heroes" from
"Zeroes." Whoever answers it correctly first (there are two
categories: email and regular mail) will receive the announced prize
and, of course, be mentioned by name in the next newsletter. Today's
question is: After how many strikes is the hitter "out" in baseball
if he doesn't hit the ball? Heads are smoking... the lucky winner
will receive this time... drum roll... brrr... brrrrrrr...
kschhhhhh!: A CD compiled according to individual personal taste!
Depending on who wins, either Angelika ("Schmusi-Schmusi") or Michael
("Pow! Pow! Pow!") will take care of the compilation, and the winner
will be in seventh heaven! Write in masses! And remember: Time is
running out--only the first email and the first mail submission will
score!

@Z: Point Reyes" is a proper noun and does not need to be translated
into English. It is the name of a prominent cape and region in Marin
County, California.

<em>Michael</em> 
With only two weeks of vacation a year, you certainly have to make
the most of every weekend: So in May, we drove to Point Reyes--a
nature reserve north of San Francisco--to do some hiking by the
ocean. And we were lucky: When we reached the tip of the peninsula,
three whales were frolicking in the water, and with the 300mm
telephoto lens we had brought along, we managed to take some
pictures. They look as blurry as those of the Loch Ness Monster--but
try focusing a 300mm telephoto lens! I guess I need to practice a bit
more.

<pic images/whale.ps A whale off the coast blows out air.>

@Z: AOL buys Netscape.

<em>Michael</em> 
As already reported, I am now working in the hallowed halls of
Netscape, but to preempt any panic rumors ("What, has the boy
switched again? Oh my!"), let it be said: Only the packaging is
changing. AOL has bought Netscape, and I remain employed by AOL, just
working in a new environment and on a new project. Otherwise, nothing
changes!

On the so-called Netscape Campus (modeled after a university campus),
there are 25 buildings, several basketball courts, a beach volleyball
field (with sand), showers in every building, and hot tubs (large
bathtubs with hot water). During lunch breaks, aerobics classes are
offered, as well as golf seminars and kickboxing.

A mobile oil change center comes by and changes the oil in your car
if you let them know. There are concierges (a term from the hotel
world, where there are sometimes people who run small errands) at
Netscape who can handle the most impossible tasks: getting concert
tickets, shopping for gifts, booking trips, finding rare books or
records. At the introductory event, a story was told about a manager
who could never remember birthdays. He simply gave the concierges a
list of his acquaintances' names, birthdays, and preferred gifts, and
the ladies there reliably sent out a gift by mail for each
occasion--and the manager received an email confirmation each time.
I'll do that too! Haha, just kidding. The goal of these efforts is,
of course, to keep all the annoying stuff away from the employees--so
they can diligently tap away on their computers. Incidentally, I
recently read, amusingly, that the divorce rate in Silicon Valley is
the highest in the world at 68%!

Back to Netscape: Bringing dogs to the office is explicitly allowed,
probably because Marc Andreessen (one of the founders of Netscape,
extremely wealthy, and now Chief Technology Officer of AOL, a mere 27
years old) has a few dogs himself. Recently, early in the morning, as
I was sitting in my cubicle (partitioned square in the open-plan
office) tinkering on my computer, something suddenly scurried under
my feet--it was a small dog that had escaped from a colleague, who
came running and apologized profusely. "Don't worry, that's okay," I
naturally said. By the way, at Netscape, no one has a private
office--everyone works in a cubicle, even the big shots who are now
billionaires. Of course, this has the disadvantage that you can hear
everything when someone is on the phone, but it's fun. Recently,
there was a commotion around my cubicle, everyone was laughing and
cheering, so I stood up and saw that four people had bought small toy
guns and were firing soft Styrofoam balls at each other from their
cubicles, only to quickly take cover behind the partitions. You see,
I'm fitting in well; I've always been good at being childish.

So, our dear ones, that's it for today! Don't forget the quiz
question if you want to win a personal CD. The question again: After
how many strikes is the hitter "out" in baseball if they don't hit
the ball? Write it down quickly, time is running out! Until next
time! Hasta la vista!

