San Francisco, 08-08-1999

And here is Michael again! Since I am constantly working, I can
report news from the world of work:

@Z: New at Netscape

<pic images/nn2.ps (#1) The Netscape hacker with his equipment>

<em>Michael</em> 
At Netscape, there was recently a small introductory event for the
new AOL employees--a so-called "Beer Bash." On such occasions,
delicious food is served, and a beer keg is tapped. To help people
get to know each other more quickly, each newcomer was given a
so-called Nerf Gun, which, we were told, is part of the traditional
equipment of a Netscape hacker. "Nerf" is the name of the company
that manufactures the device. It is a fairly large toy gun, which you
pump to pressurize the chamber and then shoot small foam darts with
suction cups. The long-time employees also brought their
equipment--and the battle began. I managed to land some good hits.
Everything raged for an hour!

The photo in Figure (#1) was digitally altered, by the way. After Tom
Cruise and Nicole Kidman were also digitally altered in Stanley
Kubrick's last film, I didn't want to be left behind. For the
computer geeks among you: the program is called "Gimp" and is the
free version of "Photoshop" for Linux. But enough techno-babble!

I now take half an hour every day to properly learn basketball -- one
of the basketball courts is right in front of the building where I
work, and ever since I bought one at the Target supermarket, there's
always a basketball ready in my cubicle. We play one-on-one, just
like on the streets of New York's Harlem! It's incredible how well
some Americans can play basketball. I haven't seen anyone do a slam
dunk yet (for that, you have to jump as high as the hoop and slam the
ball in with one hand), but the level of play is much higher than in
Europe.

Everyone has at least a few tricks up their sleeve, and I
can't do much yet, but I'm getting better every day. The only problem
is that when I rush around on the basketball court in the summer
heat, and it can get up to 40 degrees in Silicon Valley in the
summer, and then return to my cubicle, I end up sweating like a pig.
Recently, I came back from an exhausting match, and right after that,
someone came to my cubicle with a question, so I started explaining a
technical problem, and while I was talking, I noticed that I was
starting to sweat profusely. Sweat was literally pouring out of my
pores, and my colleague began to wonder and looked at me
questioningly, as he didn't know that just minutes before, I had been
running around on the sports field. It was quite funny when I
explained that it wasn't his question that caused it, but the
physical exertion. Just recently, I managed to beat one of my
colleagues 5-4 in a unique action -- in his defense, he had worked
through the night due to an important project deadline and had only
slept for two hours on one of the sofas lying around at Netscape --
nevertheless, a respectable success!

<pic images/bbb.ps Basketball at Netscape>

My colleague Dan at Netscape has a snake in the office. Its name is
"Slash." I had already mentioned the dogs that some employees bring
in. Aquariums in the cubicles are also popular. And Dan has a
terrarium with a snake, only two feet long, but still. Once a month, it
gets a mouse to eat. A few days ago, it was time: During the lunch
break, Dan got a mouse from a pet store and tossed it in with the
snake. At first, the snake behaved very calmly and watched serenely
as the mouse ran back and forth. Then suddenly, it opened its jaws,
snapped at the mouse, and sank its long teeth in. The mouse soon
stopped struggling, and the snake, whose head is perhaps two
centimeters wide, began to stretch its mouth over the much larger
mouse. It took a few minutes, and then the mouse slowly disappeared
into the snake, whose body bulged accordingly. Not for the
faint-hearted.

By the way, the Netscape employees have better vacation conditions
than we at AOL. Those who have been with the company for four years
are allowed to take a so-called "sabbatical" for 4 weeks. The
dictionary says that this is the "sabbatical year of a professor." It
is meant to allow one to reflect on life and think about how to move
forward every few years. Many Netscape employees add their two weeks
of annual vacation to this and then have six weeks off, which is
simply incredible by American standards. Since I still work for AOL,
I'm stuck with two weeks a year -- it's enough to make you cry!

Our last prize puzzle was probably too easy for you -- just about one
and a half hours after the email version of the newsletter was out,
the first correct answer came in: After 3 strikes, the hitter is out,
yes indeed. The good Thomas Wiest from Augsburg won the CD, which, as
requested, was filled with songs that were half chosen by Angelika
and half by me. Even the dear "Dr." GÃ¼nter Speckhofer from
Baden/Switzerland claimed that he only lost due to a misfortune of
fate -- allegedly, his internet provider had an outage, and therefore
he couldn't send the email in time. To spare ourselves costly legal
proceedings, we also gave the good doctor a CD, we're not that
strict. However, we didn't find it funny at all that a certain Willi
R. from Erding near Munich commented on the fact that someone from
Augsburg had won with "We thought right away that the Swabians would
stick together again!" (verbatim). You can't make this up, people. Anyways,
this time, there's something else to win. The question is: Which of
the printed pictures (except for the first one) was also manipulated?
As always, there are two prizes: One for the fastest email, one for
the fastest letter/postcard.

TODO

@Z: X-Games in San Francisco

<em>Michael</em> 
The championships in rock climbing, snowboarding, skateboarding,
rollerblading, and cycling took place this year in San Francisco. At
an event called the "X-Games," people ride wildly back and forth in
so-called half-pipes. These are half-open tubes with a diameter of
about five meters and a length of ten meters, where you can speed
down on one side and up on the other. The cyclists, rollerbladers,
and skateboarders perform all sorts of tricks, flipping and spinning,
sliding along the edges, shooting over the rim, and jumping two or
three meters into the air -- and whoever has the best tricks wins. On
Saturday, I went there early with a friend from AOL, and the line at
the entrance was about a kilometer long, all people in their
twenties. I think we were the only ones not wearing a baseball cap
backward. I felt like a grandpa; at 34, you're not the youngest
anymore, cough, cough. With the camera I brought, I was able to take
some snapshots: Here you go, images 3 and 4 show the whirling bike
masters -- live at the X-Games 1999! Once in a lifetime, baby.

<pic images/x3.ps The cyclist in the half-pipe>

<pic images/x4.ps The translation is: "He doesn't even have his hands
on the handlebars!>

@Z: Shop for special offers

<em>Michael</em> 
A topic that will likely become relevant in Germany soon, because
everything eventually crosses over, is the business practices of
local retailers. Everything always has to be cheap; that's very
important in America. While in Germany it's somewhat laughed at if
you visit several stores for a small price difference, here someone
who pays more than absolutely necessary is considered crazy. At a
party, you can certainly brag about having bought a particular
product at a very low price. Accordingly, local department stores
advertise offers, such as TVs for $100 -- but they only have one in
stock. When you arrive at the store, it's naturally gone, but the
friendly salesperson is happy to show you the slightly better -- but
also more expensive -- model. Or when buying a car: the dealer
advertises with a super cheap offer: $9,995 for a small car. But what
is actually available is a single car in a completely impossible
color that only a crazy person would buy. Once you arrive at the
store and find out that the single item is either already gone or
terribly equipped, a salesperson is immediately available to show you
the more expensive models. Since you've driven 30 km to the store,
you naturally take a look, because since you're already there...
that's how it works: customers are lured into the stores with methods
that would probably be illegal in Germany, and then end up buying
products that are not cheaper than elsewhere -- out of frustration or
boredom. We've gotten so used to this circus by now, I think I would
be genuinely surprised to walk into a store where the advertised
product actually costs as much as indicated.

@Z: Autos mieten" translates to "rent cars" in English.

<em>Michael</em> 
Or, when you want to rent a car: The newspaper says that the rental
car costs $19.95 per day. Man, that's really cheap, you think, and
call the number provided, but when you reach the call center, which
is usually staffed by people from parts of the USA where no one else
ventures (like Iowa, for example), and who speak with a terrible
dialect, you might find out that the offer is only valid in Florida,
or only if you pick up the car from a specific airport. If you don't
mention that you read the offer in a newspaper, you'll be quoted
completely different prices: $34.95 is common. However, if you
provide the so-called Ad-Code (the code printed in the advertisement,
something like "Q-95" or "ZX"), the people at the computer suddenly
find the cheaper price. Immediately after, you're informed that the
car for this price is, of course, only an "Economy Car," something
like a Golf, and you're advised to take the "Full Size Car" instead,
with more horsepower and a larger interior. If you're smart, you
stick with the small car, get your reservation number, and can visit
the car rental company on the agreed date. There, the whole process
starts again: The best line I ever heard came from a salesman at
Alamo, who tried to convince me that the car I ordered only had a
three-cylinder engine and that we couldn't possibly manage the hilly
routes we had planned -- to which I replied that it would be fine as
long as all three cylinders were still running. The gentleman didn't
find that very funny, though, because, after all, people in car
rentals are paid for so-called up-sales, meaning if the customer
drives off the lot with the car they ordered instead of upgrading to
a larger one -- of course, for an additional fee -- something went
wrong, and the manager will come down hard on the salesman if it
happens too often. Funnily enough, those who insist on their small
car usually end up getting a large one without any extra charge, as
car rental companies often don't have small cars in stock since
almost everyone gets talked into a larger one. When we didn't have
our own car and rented one every few weeks, we regularly watched
German tourists getting ripped off left and right.

@Z: Shopping at Fry's

<em>Michael</em> 
A kind of love-hate relationship has developed between me and the
computer superstore "Fry's Electronics." This is a chain of stores
that offer computer products on sales floors the size of football
fields and regularly place six-page color ads in the "San Jose
Mercury," the newspaper in Silicon Valley. On one hand, they are
quite cheap, but on the other hand, everyone knows that they operate
with dubious business practices, such as repackaging returned goods
in the original plastic wrap and selling them as new, among other
tricks. The pricing is also dubious, and the price tags on the
shelves often show a much lower price than what the cashier then
charges you. So there I was at the checkout, suddenly expected to pay
$30 more for a $200 hard drive. Naturally, I kicked up a fuss, as you
might expect. Eventually, the manager came over and said that if I
insisted, an employee would accompany me to the shelf to show me the
price tag there--and I said that's exactly what I wanted. A Fry's
employee then accompanied me back through the entire store to the
shelf where I had found the hard drive, showed me the price tag, and
lo and behold, beneath the large, prominently displayed lower price
was a bunch of fine print. After stepping up to within 50 cm of the
sign, I could read that the lower price was after a mail-in rebate,
meaning you had to pay more at the register and then send a coupon to
the company, which would then mail you a $30 check. I was, of course,
quite embarrassed, so I apologized profusely, went back to the
register with the guy, and bought the item at the higher price. At
that time, we didn't have a car yet, so I had ridden my bike and
taken the train to Fry's in Palo Alto after work. When I got home, I
opened the package and was horrified to find that there was no coupon
for the mail-in rebate. Oh, the misery! I didn't go to Fry's for
quite a while after that and had almost forgotten about the incident
when it happened that, while visiting our friends Syllus and Richard
in Portland, I stopped by a Fry's branch. I saw there that the
mail-in coupons were handed out to buyers by the employees. I waited
until a salesperson left their post and grabbed a coupon.
Unfortunately, a few months had passed since my purchase, and the new
coupon was only valid for purchases in the current month. You had to
send in a copy of the store receipt with the coupon, so I made a
deliberately poor copy where the date couldn't be clearly seen, sent
in the stuff--and, behold: six weeks later, the check arrived. My
triumphant roar could be heard all the way to Palo Alto.

@Z: Teppichreiniger

<em>Michael</em> 
Here's a translation of the text into English:

I have another little story: About two and a half years ago, when I
moved into our current apartment in San Francisco -- Angelika was
still in Germany -- there was a bit of a musty smell in the rooms.
Later, we found out from our neighbors that the previous tenant had
cats that had probably peed on the carpet. After I signed the lease,
I asked the real estate agent if I could have a carpet cleaning
company come in, and he said yes. He had just read in the newspaper
that the company Sears (a large department store chain in the USA,
similar to Karstadt in Germany) had an ad running that they would
clean any apartment for $19.95. I called them, made an appointment,
and the carpet guy came, looked around the apartment, made a face,
and said in all seriousness that we had an extraordinary carpet, a
"Berber carpet," which required special treatment, and that $19.95
wouldn't cover it. I should mention that our carpet was probably the
most average carpet in all of America. I wasn't an expert in the
field, new to the country, and relatively relaxed since the landlord
had promised to cover the costs. The carpet guy asked a few more
questions about whether I wanted the carpet super-deep-cleaned and
specially perfumed, and I said, "Yes, yes, yes, I want it all, the
full package!" The bill then came to about $120 -- we laughed so
much! And the real estate agent paid for everything. But wait, the
story doesn't end there. About a year later, we received a letter
from a lawyer who had apparently had a similar experience. He had
sued Sears for these business practices, won in court, and included a
form with his letter that you just had to fill out to receive a share
of the large compensation amount that Sears had to pay. Not
everything is allowed, even in the land of unlimited possibilities.

@Z: Firefighter Angelika

<em>Michael</em> 
Angelika successfully completed her earthquake course with the fire
department and, like a responsible firefighter, immediately put
everything into practice. She packed two earthquake boxes (as she
calls them) and included old shoes (in case you're surprised in your
sleep, you need to quickly put on shoes to walk through broken
glass), water for three days, some food, clothing, and emergency
sleeping bags made of aluminum foil. If there is no earthquake, the
boxes are also good for the turn of the millennium, as many people
fear that the electricity or water, or even worse, my internet
connection, could fail--or everything at once--because everything is
controlled by computers, which, as is well known, could have
difficulties entering the new millennium due to potential programming
errors. Experts call it the Year-2000 or Y2K bug. A colleague told me
that he bought barrels of mineral water--along with a gun to defend
his supplies if necessary.

@Z: Angelika's Photographic Art

<em>Michael</em> 
Angelika spends day and night in the darkroom of the photo lab,
indulging in her hobby. The lady has already gone through several
phases of her photography career: First, she photographed the
children in the Tenderloin kindergarten, then came what I call the
vegetable period: still lifes of radishes, cauliflower, and similar
subjects, arranged in hours-long sessions with changing lighting
conditions, captured according to the latest insights in photography
technology -- unfortunately, I can't say much more about it, as I'm
just a dumb software engineer. Then followed, for a course, people in
the city, which is very exciting in San Francisco, as all skin colors
are truly represented. Currently, it's arranged pictures again, the
latest trend being compositions with eggs and pencils. I still like
the pictures from the kindergarten, but the lady artist gets furious
when you bring up the past phases of her career. Soon, her works will
be exhibited in the halls of the university, and she's already quite
excited, and I have to attend the opening, oh dear... I am enclosing
three pictures from her opus: Three Little Rascals from the
kindergarten, the still life of pencils with an egg, and a
self-portrait -- of course, run through a printer and copier, as the
lady artist emphasizes, not to be compared with the originals, but
still!

<pic images/a1.ps The title "Angelika: Die Kinder vom Tenderloin"
translates to "Angelika: The Children of the Tenderloin" in English.>

<pic images/a1a.ps The title "Angelika: Die Kinder vom Tenderloin"
translates to "Angelika: The Children of the Tenderloin" in English.>

<pic images/a2.ps Angelika: "Pencils with egg>

<pic images/a3.ps Angelika: "Self-portrait>

The new Austin Powers movie "The Spy Who Shagged Me" (the German
translation will certainly be interesting) is out, and Angelika and I
watched it one weekend at a theater in Japantown. We laughed so much,
and afterwards, we treated ourselves to some Japanese soups with Udon
noodles, delicious! The film is full of references to American
society; for instance, the center of evil in the movie is the
headquarters of the coffeehouse chain "Starbucks," which is hated by
all San Franciscans and originates from Seattle, a city that no one
from San Francisco can stand. The superhero's crooked teeth, by the
way, are a nod to Europe: Austin Powers is English and speaks with a
British accent, and unlike in America, where every child wears
braces, a bit of natural growth is tolerated in Europe, which
Americans like to make fun of. Some dialogues from the film have
already made their way into everyday language: If you want someone to
be quiet, you first try with shhhh! and then with
"double-u-double-u-double-u-dot-shhhh!-dot-com" (www.shhhh!.com)!
Very good movie, a must-see! -- Or as the advertisement for the film
suggests: "If you only see one movie this summer -- watch 'Star
Wars.' If you manage to see two: also go see 'The Spy Who Shagged
Me.' It doesn't get more modest than that.

<pic images/austin.ps The translation of "Austin Powers -- Der neue
Kinoheld" to English is "Austin Powers -- The New Movie Hero.>

@Z: Perl Power

<em>Michael</em> 
My book "Perl Power," which has been lingering in the bookstores of
English-speaking countries since January, is enjoying increasing
popularity. More and more often, people at Netscape pass by my
cubicle and want me to sign their copy, which I am, of course, happy
to do. Whenever we pass by a bookstore on our weekend outings, I
naturally have to take a look inside -- and check if they have "Perl
Power." Usually, there are two or three copies somewhere, which I
quickly place in the "Book of the Week" shelves when no one is
looking. If you don't take care of everything yourself... Recently, I
received, no kidding, an email from a Mr. McKenzie from Reykjavik,
Iceland, who complained that one of the programs printed in the book
wasn't working for him. Probably a power outage in the igloo... no,
he just hadn't installed a module correctly.

@Z: The Bike Nazi

<em>Michael</em> 
I also enjoy biking and taking the train to the Netscape office in
Mountain View, as it allows me to read all the computer magazines and
books that pile up at home for an hour each way. Plus, there's always
something to laugh about on the train ride. As I've mentioned before,
each train can carry 24 bicycles, and the conductors usually make
sure that no more than that get on. At each stop, they rush into the
so-called bike car and stand at the door to turn away any cyclists
trying to board if the car is already full. Some conductors, who are
the favorites of the cyclists and celebrated like heroes, avoid
confrontation and simply never show up in the bike car when the train
stops. As a result, new cyclists board at every station--I once
experienced a situation where there were 35 bicycles inside, and you
could hardly breathe, but whenever that happens, there's a great
atmosphere in the bike car. The cyclists in San Francisco and Silicon
Valley are an oppressed minority, and a nice sense of camaraderie
develops. Stories are shared about who had the most spectacular
accidents and how clueless car drivers are. However, one conductor,
who is called the "Bike Nazi" by the cyclists, is particularly strict
and insists that everyone places their bicycle in the exact spot he
assigns. The Bike Nazi bases this on some obscure calculations,
claiming it's more efficient if the person getting off first has
their bike at the front. I always chuckle to myself and say nothing,
but recently, a passenger lost his temper and angrily insulted the
Bike Nazi. He, the conductor, was the only one enforcing this
"nonsense," and the passenger threatened to complain, predicting that
the conductor would soon receive his "pink slip" (termination
letter). I had to smile as I continued reading my book. In San
Francisco, there are also specific routes for cyclists that allow you
to get from A to B without having to cross any of the exhausting
hills. These routes are given funny names known only to cyclists and
are passed down orally from biker to biker.
<LINK>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wiggle|Duboce-Shuffle</LINK>
For example, a tricky route from Market Street to Golden Gate Park --
without much car traffic and almost no hills. Or the "John Benton
Overpath," from the train station on 22nd Street to Noe Valley, where
we live. The route was devised by a gentleman named John Benton, a
Caltrain biker, whom I have the honor of knowing personally. Yours,
Michael -- "Man of the people, friend to the stars!

So, we have reached the end, and the lady photographer has promised
to provide something written next time as well. Remember, there's
something to win this time too: Which image, apart from the first
printed one, has been digitally altered and is therefore a blatant
forgery? The first correct email and the first letter received
through regular mail will win the exclusive prize: A hand-developed
original (hand-signed upon request) by the artist, in the format 25cm
x 20cm. It will turn any student dorm into an intellectual loft. See
you soon! Michael and Angelika

