San Francisco, 09-05-2000

@Z:Fitness

<pic images/pm.ps Dolores Park, San Francisco: Michael is so happy in his "Perlmeister.com" T-shirt that he gazes absentmindedly at the skyline and lets Angelika go first today.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
As you may know, California is considered an absolute fitness hub.
People here like to be health-conscious, which has not only led to
smoking being banned almost everywhere and supermarket shelves being
filled with "nonfat" (completely fat-free) or low-fat products, but
also to fitness centers popping up like mushrooms. Michael, who is
known to see himself as an "All Californian Boy," has been a member
of a fitness center for a long time (<RBLINK>19991120#1</RBLINK>)
and since then, he's been nagging me to do something for my health.

After months of persuasion, during which Michael didn't shy away from
using psychological tricks--for example, I received a book titled
"Fitness for Dummies" for Christmas and a voucher for a personal
training session with Turbo Trainer Michael--I finally gave in and
went with Michael to the 24-hour fitness center. Anyone who has known
me since my early youth and knows how much I hate sports (especially
any form of school sports) will mark this event in red on their
calendar.

For those who haven't known me that long and need an idea
of how much I am at odds with the concept of "sports," I'll quickly
share a true story that took place during a report card conference in
the eleventh grade, which I attended as class representative. When my
grades were being discussed (strangely, I wasn't sent out of the
room), they were puzzled by my only D on the report card. You guessed
it right, it was in sports. This led my teacher, Mr. Pohl, known for
his insensitive comments--he once called me a "poisonous tongue" (but
I digress)--to remark that he was glad I apparently had more in my
head than in my legs. This and a few other unpleasant experiences
made me swear at a very young age never to participate in the Olympic
Games or ever set foot in a fitness center.

But, you should never say
"never," because for the past three weeks, I've been a member of a
fitness club, running on treadmills, pedaling wildly on bikes, and
stepping like there's no tomorrow. I also have personal training
sessions because, as a sports grouch, I need guidance on how to use
the equipment properly without ruining myself ("Sports is murder!").
The trainer ensures that I know how many muscles I have and how to
strengthen them. But you don't need to worry and think I'll soon be
coming along as Mrs. Schwarzenegger. I'd have to train daily for 10
years for that, and there's really no danger of that happening.

<pic images/24hours.ps The 24-hour fitness studio>

Even earlier today, we've already been to the fitness center, and as I was
running on the treadmill and staring into the distance, a book
suddenly came to mind that I once had to read in school (I seem to be
reminiscing a lot lately). It was called "The Papalagi - The Speeches
of the South Seas Chief Tuiavii from Tiavea" and it's about how this
chief came to Europe at the beginning of the 20th century and
marveled at and made fun of some of the achievements. I couldn't stop
thinking about what remarks he would have made about a fitness
center:

The Papalagi (as the chief refers to the European in his speeches)
loves to exert himself in enclosed spaces which the sun cannot
penetrate. He uses all sorts of things that resemble torture
instruments. He forces himself into these machines and seems to seek
pain, as his face is petrified and covered in beads of sweat.
Although the Papalagi is otherwise very keen on getting from one
place to another without using his own legs and feet, instead relying
on various machines with strange names like automobile, airplane,
escalator, elevator, he is completely enamored with the moving belts
in the sunless houses that do not transport him from one place to
another. It seems to bring him pure joy to keep his legs and feet in
constant motion to stay on the belt. It is also puzzling that music,
like that at festivals, plays from rectangular boxes, yet no one
dances, drinks, eats, or speaks. No Papalagi nods in friendly
connection to his neighbor but instead stares at other boxes from
which smaller Papalagis flicker...

And since I'm already riding the fitness wave, I've also started
doing yoga. My friend Anne was looking for a partner, and I didn't
need much convincing. You know, yoga is the ancient Indian practice
where you contort yourself into all sorts of possible and impossible
body positions to strengthen the organs, stretch the muscles, and
relax the body and mind. Proper breathing is also very important in
yoga. There are now a ton of different styles and schools of yoga (I
still don't quite understand them all). It's not just physical
exercise; it's also very philosophical and has religious undertones.
However, Anne and I were not so much interested in the latter, and
since Americans are known for being very practical, there are, of
course, courses everywhere that focus more on the fitness aspect of
yoga. Interestingly, Madonna (for those of you not so familiar with
the music scene: Madonna is an American pop singer) has contributed
to a real yoga boom. Madonna has been swearing by yoga for quite some
time and talks about it in every interview. I read on the internet
that there are now supposedly more people practicing yoga actively in
California than in India. I'm not sure if that's true, but it would
fit with health-obsessed California.

<pic images/yoga.ps The Yoga center on Dolores Street>

What I actually wanted to tell you is that last week we couldn't
attend our usual yoga class. Since there is now a yoga institute in
our neighborhood that looks quite inviting from the outside and also
offers so-called "drop-in classes" (classes you can attend without
any prior registration) for $8, Anne and I decided to try it out.
However, we were quite surprised when we entered the entrance area of
the building and were surrounded by incense sticks, photos of Indian
gurus, and votive candles. After we paid at the reception and the
girl there also mentioned that our class would take place in the
temple, we rolled our eyes a bit and were very glad to be together.

Nevertheless, we bravely climbed the stairs to the so-called temple,
passing countless "guru pictures" along the way. Well, the whole
thing continued in an esoteric style. Before we began our exercises,
the yoga teacher first lit candles and then worshiped the guru
picture that was set up like an altar in the room. When we also had
to sing something like "Om, Om Shanti Shanti Shanti," and I could
barely suppress a fit of laughter, I decided that this type of yoga
wasn't quite right for me.

@Z: New TV show "Survivor"

<pic images/survivor.ps The motto of the Survivor show: Outwit-Outplay-Outlast (Outsmart-Outplay-Endure)>

<em>Angelika</em> 
We have often reported on American media events, and this time it's
happening again. As we read in the SÃ¼ddeutsche Zeitung, the reality
show "Big Brother" is surprisingly popular among younger audiences in
Germany. However, in the USA, "Big Brother" has surprisingly had
little success and has been overshadowed by the reality show
"Survivor" from the television network CBS. What is "Survivor" about?

TODO

Sixteen contestants of varying ages, genders, and personalities are
stranded on an island with the melodious name "Pulau Tiga" near
Malaysia. The "survival battle" is set for 39 days, broadcast over 13
television episodes. The players are initially divided into two rival
tribes (Tagi and Pagong Tribe) and must not only manage daily life
with the most primitive means (everything from making fire, catching
fish, building huts, etc.) but also compete against each other in
various challenges. It's almost like "It's a Knockout." The
challenges include rowing races, spear throwing, and holding one's
breath underwater the longest; they even have to eat worms. The team
that loses must vote out one of their members, who must immediately
leave the island. This happens at the end of each show in a
ceremonial tribunal. After several episodes, the tribes are merged. A
competition takes place on each broadcast day, but now the winner
receives a talisman as a prize, which prevents them from being voted
out. The very last "Survivor" receives a prize of one million dollars
and is chosen in the final episode by the seven people who had to
leave the island last.

You might be wondering what is so special about the show and that it
probably has nothing to do with reality. I admit that running cameras
and TV crews hardly create a genuine Robinson Crusoe feeling, but
there is something about the show. Everyone knows it, everyone talks
about it, which is not surprising considering that an average of 24.5
million viewers tuned in. When the last episode of Survivor I was
broadcast, there were "Survivor parties" everywhere. Ironically, the
contestant who won was the one who played coldly and strategically
from the beginning and was not particularly popular with the
audience. That might also be part of the fascination. The whole thing
resembles more of a social-psychological experiment on human behavior
in groups. To win, you have to form alliances with individuals and
also try to strategically eliminate stronger players. However, you
must not behave too badly and upset the other team members, as the
last seven choose the winner. Luck also plays a part, as you can gain
immunity by winning competitions. No wonder the American media was
full of psychological analyses about why Richard (the lucky winner)
won and the others did not, etc. And, of course, philosophical
questions arise, such as "Is man inherently evil or good?" "Does it
depend on the situation, environment, upbringing, or a reward being
offered (1 million dollars)?" Well, you will surely be able to form
your own opinion soon. The show is bound to come to Germany. Survivor
II is already in the planning stages. This time, the survival
challenge will take place in Australia, where there is also quite a
bit of dangerous wildlife.

@Z: Handy-Plage

<em>Angelika</em> 
Since Michael will explain to you in his section how to make phone
calls in America, I will write to you, somewhat fittingly on the
topic, about the cell phone plague in America. On a current note:
Michael has been provided with a cell phone as a bonus from his boss
because he solved a software problem so elegantly. Well, of course,
the underlying reason is that he should always be reachable, and
that's exactly why I have a bone to pick with cell phones, or rather
with their owners who feel the need to use them everywhere. Since I
know that cell phones are also generally popular in Germany and I
don't want to risk receiving angry letters, let me note right away
that I acknowledge that a cell phone can be very useful in
emergencies. But does it really have to be used everywhere? I do
enjoy talking on the phone for long periods, but I don't want to
share my conversations with the whole world. In San Francisco, it has
really become a plague. The best experience I've had so far is a
woman standing in a public restroom happily chatting away, which
prompted me to wash my hands particularly loudly and for a long time
and to let the hand dryer run for an extended period, as they make a
lot of noise (I can be so mean). Talking on the phone while driving
is also a popular sport and has already led to many accidents. Since
I walk a lot, I can sing a song about drivers happily chatting on
their phones and almost running me over. In California, due to the
accidents, there is now consideration of banning cell phone use while
driving. I find it interesting that California is extremely militant
against smokers, but when it comes to cell phones, no one really
dares to take the initiative. Although some restaurants in San
Francisco have now become mobile phone-free zones. My attitude is
simple: everything in its own time. I have my own theory about why
people like to use cell phones in public: so that everyone can see
how important they are and how many people they know.

And since I'm already on the topic of the negative developments in
modern communication technology, I must quickly get off my chest that
there is one innovation, which almost every American household
possesses, that I absolutely cannot stand: the so-called "Call
Waiting." "Call Waiting" sends a tone signal if someone else tries to
call while you're already on the phone. So, while you're deeply
engaged in a conversation, the person with "Call Waiting" suddenly
hears the signal. They can then switch to the other call, leaving you
bored on the line until they're ready to speak with you again. Even
though there have been instances in Germany where people desperately
tried to reach me and even called the fault service because the line
was always busy, "Call Waiting" will not be coming into my house.

@Z: AuslÃ¤nder

<em>Angelika</em> 
Before I hand over to Michael, I would like to thank you for the
numerous responses regarding my inquiry about the growing xenophobia
and right-wing radicalism in Germany. We have read and discussed your
opinions with interest. Many of you pointed out that right-wing
radicalism is not only present in Germany but also in many European
countries and, of course, in the USA. It was also repeatedly
mentioned that there is racism in the United States as well. We have
never denied this and find any form of racism and right-wing
radicalism--regardless of the country--alarming and extremely
dangerous. On the other hand, I believe that Germany, due to its
history, has a very special responsibility to nip xenophobia and
right-wing radicalism in the bud. The thought "never again" must, in
my opinion, be predominant in Germany. What true acceptance means
became particularly clear to me in my interactions with some Jewish
people I have met here. None of them rejected me or wanted nothing to
do with me just because I am German. Many of them had bitter
experiences with Nazi Germany. For example, a young student I
befriended in one of my Berkeley courses had lost her grandmother in
a concentration camp.

Hm, the transition will be difficult now, but I just wanted to get
that off my chest...

<em>Michael</em> 
Well, you can say that again. That's why I'm adding my two cents:
Living as a foreigner sharpens your senses for matters of this kind.
It hasn't happened to me even once that some idiot spoke to me rudely
just because I'm a foreigner. I would have given them a piece of my
mind! On the contrary, people listen intently when I talk about how
things are in Germany. And that's how I want it to be in Germany too.
Don't mess things up! Don't embarrass me! And now, on to more
pleasant things.

Oh my, time flies! I wanted to add something about the American
Independence Day. This year, it fell on a Tuesday, and because of
that, Monday was also a day off -- a four-day weekend, we cried tears
of joy. With the "PERL MAN," we drove up almost to the border of the
state of Oregon, where the "Lassen National Park" is located.

<pic images/lassen9.ps A bubbling mud pot in Lassen Volcanic National
Park>

@Z: The Lassen National Park

<em>Michael</em> 
In the small town of "Mineral," which, according to the town sign,
has 90 inhabitants, we checked into a motel for three days. During
the day, we hiked through the mountains--20 kilometers in one day! We
were on the move for about seven hours because we had to photograph
every tree stump, every pretty piece of bark, and every moss on the
trees. From these pictures, one could put together the most boring
exhibition in the world under the motto "Trees and Mosses." We're
working on it!

<pic images/lassen6.ps The "Perlman" in alpine terrain>

Ein

<pic images/lassen1.ps Angelika on a snowfield on the way to the hot
springs.>

<pic images/lassen3.ps Haha, the French sandal-wearing tourist ended
up in the mud!>

The bubbling water holes in the national park are formed, according
to the signs, because water at an altitude of 2500 meters boils at
just 90 degrees, and the steam, which is created by volcanic activity
in the earth's interior under high pressure, is even hotter. When the
steam comes into contact with the water, it boils immediately and
bubbles. The physicists among the newsletter readers are left
speechless by the power of this scientific proof! Soon, I will
elaborate on this in the SÃÂ¼ddeutsche Zeitung magazine in the section
"Children Ask, Nobel Laureates Answer." Ha! The warning signs around
the springs advised against directly touching the springs, as many
have suffered severe burns from doing so. One person is even said to
have once put his leg into a bubbling water hole! According to travel
guides, not much was left of it. However, the water of the streams
that then rush down the mountain has a pleasant temperature, similar
to that of a bathtub at home. Snow still lay all around, and the
water steamed quite a bit.

<pic images/lassen4.ps It smokes and hisses at the bubbling water
holes.>

<pic images/lassen2.ps Warning about the hot springs>

The translation to English is: "Moreover, it smells quite strongly of
sulfur there, or, more precisely, sulfur dioxide. The first
impression one gets--and which I, of course, never tired of
mentioning--is that someone here, after consuming plenty of eggs,
onions, and beer, let out some, um, emissions. We laughed so much!

And we also hiked up an extinct volcano. After the half-hour ascent,
we walked around the rim of the crater at the top. To give the
curious newsletter readers a glimpse into the farthest corners of the
world, the intrepid newsletter reporter even descended into the
crater, all the way to the center. There, he lay down and stretched
out for a photo. But, oh dear, a misunderstanding occurred! I thought
Angelika, who had stayed up at the crater rim, had already taken the
photo, but she was still busy working with the hefty professional
camera while I was already climbing back up. Once I reached the top,
I didn't have the strength to go down again. Now, in the photo (see
arrow!), you can only see a tiny figure walking at the bottom of the
crater. I was furious!

<pic images/lassen5.ps Ascent to the Volcano>

<pic images/lassen8.ps Looked from the edge of the crater into the
hinterland>

<pic images/kraterp.ps A circular letter narrator has descended
bravely into the crater.>

On the mountain, it looks like the moon, completely surreal. With
each step, you sink a little into the fine-grained brown gravel that
lies on the surface of the mountain. By the way, volcanoes in the USA
are by no means extinct; ten years ago, Mount St. Helens in Oregon
erupted and turned square kilometers of forest into rubble and ash.
We were there six years ago, and it looked like a mess. But back to
civilization!

@Z: Tips for Making Phone Calls

<em>Michael</em> 
In our series "America for Tourists," today we will cover how to make
phone calls in this country. First of all: How do you call into the
country? You have an American phone number that looks like (415)
642-4321. The digits in parentheses are the so-called area code, the
prefix. The last seven digits represent the phone number. The hyphen
mainly serves as a visual separator, and sometimes you can also
deduce the neighborhood from the three digits before the hyphen.

By the way, according to scientific studies (the Bild newspaper
always writes "American researchers have found out"), seven digits
are the maximum that the human short-term memory can still
retain--ideal for hearing the number and writing it down immediately.
When asked for the phone number, people quickly recite the numbers,
with a short pause instead of a hyphen.

Every American phone number looks like this. It doesn't matter
whether the person lives in Hawaii, New York City, or somewhere in
the mountains. To the smart ones among you who might argue that in
large cities, numbers might run out, I firmly respond: Then there are
simply two or more area codes, as is the case in New York City, where
212 and 646 are common.

We were at the phone number (415) 642-4321. From Germany, you dial
001-415-642-4321, as the international dialing code for America is
001. If you are in the same city as the person you are calling, you
can omit the area code and just dial 642-4321. But be careful: This
doesn't work in some rural areas where an area code often covers
large regions.

What do you dial if you are in the USA but not in the specified city?
Correct, you include the area code. But, be careful: you must prefix
it with a 1. Whether from a payphone or a private phone, the area
code must be preceded by a 1, otherwise it won't work. In this case,
the number is 1-415-642-4321. It's actually crazy, but that's how it
is. Only the newer mobile phones can do it without the 1. By the way,
'Handy' is a German word that no one here associates with phones;
here the word simply means 'practical'. Mobile phones are called
'cell phones' in the USA.

The equivalent of the toll-free 0130 numbers in Germany are the
so-called 1-800 numbers here. These are numbers with the area code
(800), which, as explained above, must always be preceded by a 1.
Recently, there are also 1-877 and 1-888 numbers, which are also
toll-free. The equivalent of the German 0190 number in America is
1-900, which is known for high charges. By the way, the 1-800 numbers
do not work from abroad. If there is no additional "normal" number,
the only option is to call one of the American telephone companies
(such as AT&T) and pay with a credit card.

A typical American invention is the telephone letters. As shown in
Figure 13, each number key on American phones is assigned three
letters of the alphabet, with only the keys 1 and 0 remaining free.
The purpose of this exercise: Companies can choose numbers that form
meaningful words, making them easier to remember. If a radio
advertisement, for example, said "Sign up for a tandem parachute jump
today! Call 1-800-759-3483!" no one would likely remember the number.
Instead, it says "1-800-SKYDIVE," which even the dimmest person can
remember.

<pic images/telefon.ps The number keys 2 to 9 are each assigned three
letters of the alphabet: 2-ABC, 3-DEF, 4-GHI, 5-JKL, 6-MNO, 7-PRS,
8-TUV, 9-WXY. Q and Z are not included.>

What do you do as a tourist in the country? You can call from the
hotel, but they charge an arm and a leg. Most of the time, they not
only demand a service fee before the call even starts, but the rates
are also much higher compared to what you would pay with a private
phone. Especially the luxury hotels sometimes charge astronomical
prices that leave you speechless.

The other alternative, making calls from phone booths using coins, is
advisable at best for local calls, which usually cost 35 cents
(although local calls in the USA are free if you have your own
phone!). I still clearly remember my first vacation in America: When
I tried to call Germany this way, a telephone operator intervened and
kindly informed me that I would need to insert something like six
dollars and eighty cents in coins for the first three minutes. Just
imagine: The largest commonly used coins here are quarters, so you
would have to carry around 28 of them! Outraged, I hung up.
Incidentally, this led to me not calling home for 13 weeks, which
later caused tumultuous situations, but I digress.

When using a public phone booth and wanting to make a local call, you
pick up the receiver, insert 35 cents (the phones accept nickels,
dimes, and quarters), and dial the seven-digit number -- that's it.
On the other hand, if it's a long-distance call, you dial 1, the area
code, and the number after picking up the receiver. Then an automated
voice will prompt you with something like "Please deposit 80 cents."
Once you insert the required amount, the call goes through.
Sometimes, you even have to dial the area code (and pay the
long-distance rate) when you're in the same area code region. You
quickly figure this out by first trying it as a local call; then an
automated voice will explain how to do it correctly.

<pic images/pbooth.ps A typical phone booth by the roadside>

By the way, here in America, there is always an "operator," a
telephone operator, in case you don't know what to do next. If you
dial just a 0, a lady from the local telephone company answers,
offering friendly advice or connecting calls.

In public phone booths, the most amazing things can happen: Christian
Huber and I once experienced something in a phone booth at the
airport. Shortly after a call -- the receiver had been back on the
hook for some time, and we had sat down on a bench -- the phone
suddenly started ringing. We laughed, but when it still hadn't
stopped after the tenth ring, we answered it out of curiosity. It was
the telephone operator, who informed us that a few cents were still
owed for the last call -- which we then, quite shocked, promptly
inserted.

But, as I said, I advise against making phone calls with cash from a
public phone. It's better to buy a so-called prepaid calling card
(for example, from MCI) at a supermarket or a small convenience
store. You pay around twenty dollars and nowadays you get phone units
that allow for about 200 minutes of calls to Germany--unbeatably
cheap. You take the card to the nearest phone booth, pick up the
receiver, and dial the 1-800 number without inserting any money. Then
a friendly voice asks for the card code, which you also enter, and
you can start making calls. As mentioned, you don't need a "card
phone," as such a thing doesn't exist in America. This way, you also
outsmart the hotel phone scammers, because the 1-800 number usually
doesn't cost anything there either. In exceptional cases, a
connection fee might be charged, so be sure to carefully read the
brochures lying around in the hotel room, otherwise, you might face
unpleasant surprises, especially in expensive business hotels (e.g.,
Hyatt). And usually, you have to dial a number (e.g., 9) from the
hotel room before you can make an outside call.

To call Germany from the USA, by the way, you need to omit the "0" in
the area code after the international dialing code 01149. So if you
want to call the Munich phone number 089/523540, you simply dial
01149-89-523540, whether from a public phone or a private line.

For help in an emergency, you can call the number 911, which
corresponds to the German 110 number. You don't need any money to
call 911, and you can report traffic accidents, fires, and assaults.

If you don't have any money or a calling card on you but absolutely
need to call someone, you can make a "collect" call, which means the
recipient pays the charges. This only works within the USA and goes
like this: At the payphone, you dial 1-800-COLLECT (or 1-800-CALLATT,
which stands for "Call AT&T," the telephone company), and the
automated voice will prompt you to enter the desired phone number.
You can also record a short message that will be played to the
recipient (e.g., "Hey, it's me, Michael, don't leave me hanging!!"),
so they can decide whether to accept the call and cover the costs. If
they say "yes," the call goes through.

<pic images/pbooth2.ps 0.35 cents for a local call>

If you ever get stuck, you can always call the "operator" by simply
dialing 0. This doesn't cost anything, even from a payphone. However,
if the operator offers to dial the number for you, you should
decline, as that would actually incur an additional charge.

Phone booths, by the way, usually have their own number, which is
displayed on the device. This way, you can make a brief call to
someone with little money, give them the number, and ask for a
callback. You can reach directory assistance by dialing 411 for local
area numbers. For other area codes, it's 1 + area code + 522-1212,
but be careful, as this may incur charges.

If you have a private telephone line, you distinguish between the
local provider and the one for long-distance calls. In our area, the
local telephone company is called Pacific Bell. You pay them about 19
dollars a month as a basic fee, which includes all local phone calls.
So, if we make calls within the city or connect to the internet via a
modem, it costs nothing. Nada. Njet. Zilch. This naturally leads to a
different attitude towards the internet here -- you are online all
day long.

For long-distance calls, you choose from a range of providers, known
as long-distance providers. The official ones are AT&T, MCI, and
Sprint. When you register a phone, you have to choose one of these
three. These companies compete in ways you can hardly imagine. Since
we are with AT&T, we often receive calls from MCI, who repeatedly try
to entice us to switch to them. In America, companies are allowed to
call private phone numbers to sell things. This usually happens in
the evening, around 8, when most people are at home. You then hear
things like: "Did you know that we can offer you a much better deal
than AT&T? With us, it only costs 17 cents a minute to call Germany!"
Conversely, AT&T sends letters to customers of other phone companies,
offering $100 in cash if they switch to AT&T.

But be careful: If you don't watch the fees like a hawk, these
companies will gladly rip you off. Paying the regular rate is
considered amateurish. You always have to negotiate a special rate
with the telephone company. Calling Germany for one minute costs
about a dollar with AT&T's standard rate--a sky-high price. We
negotiated a special deal where we pay an additional $3.95 per month
as a fixed fee but only 17 cents per minute to Germany, and 9 cents
on Sundays! Not to mention the discounts during a full moon and low
tide in the ocean.

The local magazine "Money" (comparable to the German magazines
"Capital" or "Der Geizhals") recently conducted a test where three
people with monthly phone bills of $25, $50, and $70 were asked to
call their phone companies. They were instructed not to mention any
specific offers but simply to ask if there was a way to make it
cheaper. Promptly, they were offered plans that reduced their phone
bills to $9, $15, and $32 per month. It's all a matter of
negotiation.

The phone bill always breaks down exactly how much you have saved
through all the special deals (you can be in X different savings
programs at the same time; I believe we are currently enrolled in
two). For us, it says: Your bill is $44.16. You have saved $457.63.
No joke, in Figure 15 you can see a copy of the bill! Those were, of
course, highlights of negotiation skills -- don't try this at home,
kids, we are trained professionals!

<pic images/att.ps A section from our phone bill: Saved 457 dollars!>

By the way, American phone bills are meticulously itemized, showing
when you called which number, how long the conversation lasted, and
how much it cost. The bill is usually four to six pages long,
includes dozens of opaque taxes and fees, and you need at least a
high school diploma, if not a doctorate in business administration,
to make sense of it. For example, a basic connection costs about $19
per month. Exactly eleven (11) different items are itemized: The
largest portion is the "Residence Flat Rate Service," the basic fee
that includes all local calls at a fixed price. Then there are things
that, to be honest, I don't quite understand, as I am not a certified
business economist. Perhaps one of the appropriately educated
newsletter readers can help me out: From "Number Portability Svc
Charge" ($0.34), to "CA High Cost Fund Surcharge" ($0.27), to "State
Regulatory Fee" ($0.01), I file the whole thing every month under
"Clear rip-off, but I'll get it back from you elsewhere.

@Z: Californian Wine Tips

<em>Michael</em> 
So, now to a new section in the newsletter: Each time, we will
examine two wines from a Californian wine region. We have always
enjoyed driving to Napa or Sonoma Valley on weekends and sampling the
abundant wines offered there. Since I am not a professional wine
taster, it is, of course, possible that my recommendations do not
follow the strict guidelines of the professionals. Paula Bosch, who
always writes the wine recommendations in the SÃÂ¼ddeutsche Zeitung
magazine, would surely be outraged by my amateurish efforts, but hey,
everyone has to start somewhere! Furthermore, it should be noted in
advance that the whole thing is a very, very subjective matter -- but
perhaps that's what makes it so appealing. After all, I've never been
objective!

<pic images/sonoma.ps The Sonoma Creek Cabernet Sauvignon, 1998>

A wine that I discovered at "Costco," our mega-supermarket, I
consider to be a special bargain: the "Sonoma Creek" Cabernet
Sauvignon from 1998. Anyone who has never tried a Californian red
wine will be surprised at how robust and developed most of these reds
are. I would categorize the "Sonoma Creek" as medium robust, with
light but very, very pleasant tannins. In the "nose," there is a
highly pleasant fresh oak aroma, making you want to keep your nose in
the glass for hours! The taste offers an abundance of fruits, ranging
from the Cabernet-typical dark cherries to blackberries, all with a
crisp acidity! Pleasant and long-lasting aftertaste! An exceptional
find for only 10 dollars. 9 out of 10 points, no kidding.

<pic images/woodbridge.ps The Woodbridge Cabernet Sauvignon, 1997>

Oh, I forgot to mention, the second wine that is always presented
here, just for fun, is a sorrel. Today: The "Woodbridge" Cabernet
Sauvignon from 1997. The "Woodbridge" brand is one of the more
well-known ones, and the wine is available almost everywhere. It's
the budget brand from Robert Mondavi. Recently, the "Zinfandel"
variety (red Zinfandel, not to be confused with the pink stuff that
many Americans like to drink) from "Woodbridge" received a high score
in the Wine Spectator, and because I forgot which grape variety it
was, I bought the 1.5-liter bottle of "Cabernet Sauvignon" for about
13 dollars. What a mistake! The wine tastes a bit like a trash can
that hasn't been emptied for three days, with rotting apple peels,
and has a strange, slightly bitter aftertaste. Just the smell gives
me a headache! 2 out of 10 points. In the desert, I might drink it,
but here, where there's a choice, I won't. The bottle is still
three-quarters full, so if anyone wants to visit us in San Francisco
and finish it, they're welcome to, I'm done with it.

@Z: Erdbeben

<pic images/quake.ps An earthquake with a magnitude of 5.2>

<em>Michael</em> 
By the way, we recently had an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.2! On
Saturday, September 3rd, we came home late because our friend Anne
had locked her key inside, and we had to wait for some time in the
bar of the Fairmont Hotel. I was still reading in bed, while Angelika
was already asleep. Suddenly, the apartment started to shake, and it
went on and on, certainly lasting a total of 10 seconds. Nothing
broke, as the epicenter was in Yountville in Napa, where we often go
for wine tastings. I calmly continued reading my book (Go West, East
Germans in America, Andreas Lehmann).

With this funny story, we'll call it a day for now. Warm greetings to
all of you, and tune in again when it's time for: It's
Rundbrief-Time!

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

