
San Francisco, 12-04-2000

@Z: The Presidential Election Disaster

<pic images/f1.ps A neck-and-neck race in Florida.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
America still does not have a new president. In Germany, you are
surely observing this election thriller while shaking your head and
perhaps with a bit of schadenfreude, because it is indeed fascinating
that a country that always prides itself on being a leader in this
and that cannot manage to count votes accurately. Although
the German press has reported extensively on the presidential election, I
would still like to add a few details, as some classic American
phenomena are emerging.

First of all, there is the highly complicated and yet quite
old-fashioned seeming election process. The American President is not
elected directly by the people, but by a body of electors known as
the "Electoral College." Each American state sends electors to this
body. A candidate needs at least 270 out of a total of 538 electoral
votes to become President. However, not every state is allocated the
same number of electors. The more populous the state, the more
electors it sends. For example, California is one of the most
populous states and therefore sends 54 electors, whereas Hawaii sends
only 4. The election on November 7th was therefore intended to
determine the composition of the group of electors. Generally, the
candidate who wins in a particular state (known as the "popular
vote") receives all of that state's electoral votes. Winning at this
stage does not require an absolute majority; even a lead of a handful
of votes is enough to secure all the electoral votes. This is why
Florida is currently the deciding factor. Without Florida's electoral
votes, neither Bush nor Gore can achieve an absolute majority in the
Electoral College. The electors are usually long-standing, loyal
party members to ensure they do not vote against the will of the
people. What seems bizarre about this system is that a candidate can
have more total votes nationwide than their opponent but still receive
fewer electoral votes. This is already the case in this election, as
Al Gore has secured the "popular vote" (votes cast nationwide).
Nevertheless, Bush is likely to become President.

The Electoral College is set to convene on December 18 to elect the
president. The official inauguration will then take place on January
20. By the way, the Electoral College system dates back to 1787 and
was intended, among other things, to ensure that the states have
sufficient say. Numerous attempts have been made to modify the
Electoral College system, but so far without success. We can only
hope that after this election disaster, something will finally
happen. Some critics already suggest that it might not be necessary
to change the electoral system, but that it might help to acquire
more modern counting machines. In Germany, you might wonder how it is
possible that not every state uses the same technology in a
presidential election. This is again due to the principle that each
state has extensive decision-making freedom. For example, not only is
the death penalty present in some states in America and not in
others, but there are also different technologies for counting votes
and different ballots. These can vary not only from state to state
but also from district to district. As a result, some Americans make
crosses, others draw black lines in a designated field, and still
others punch holes. For this, the ballots are clamped into a device,
and you receive a pen-like tool to punch out a pre-drawn hole--next
to the name of your preferred candidate. This voting method led to
chaos in Florida. Where a hole is punched, there is circular confetti
waste, called "chad" in America.

<pic images/election.ps Red: Bush. Blue: Gore.>

Unfortunately, this is apparently not so simple, because sometimes
this punched-out waste still hangs by a thread on the ballot card.
The counting machine then doesn't understand what's going on and
rejects the ballot as invalid. Therefore, hand counting in Florida
should provide more accurate results. The question that went around
the country was: What counts as a valid vote? Thus, the "chads" were
also categorized. My two favorites are: "pregnant chads," the waste
pieces that have barely detached from the card, and "dimpled chads,"
where only a bulge is visible. However, since there are unfortunately
no uniform guidelines for hand counting in Florida either, experts were seen
arguing about "chads" on every TV channel - a perfect absurd theater.

Although the results of the counts (including the highly
controversial hand counts) were announced in Florida at 5 PM local
time last Sunday (November 26), this does not necessarily mean that
the winner of the 25 electoral votes in Florida, George Bush, will
remain the winner, as numerous lawsuits are still pending in various
American courts.

What is crucial now, above all, is what the American "Supreme Court"
(similar to the Federal Constitutional Court in Germany) will decide
in the coming days. The question is whether the highest court in
Florida was authorized to allow manual recounts in Florida beyond the
deadline set in the election law. George Bush says the judges in
Florida exceeded their authority. Al Gore, on the other hand,
believes that everything was done correctly, as no voter's voice
should be disregarded.

Incidentally, it is sensational that for the first time in U.S.
history, the Supreme Court in Washington is intervening in an
election. Americans firmly believe in the sovereignty of individual
states, as previously mentioned, and election laws are, even in
presidential elections, a matter for the states, and in this particular case,
Florida. However, a decision by the Supreme Court in favor of Bush
can only increase his lead. Currently, Bush is ahead of Gore in
Florida by 537 votes. If the hand recounts are declared invalid
beyond the deadline, the lead increases to 930 votes, and the legal
battle shifts back to Florida. Gore wants to ensure that a hand
recount is conducted in a county called "Leon" (a "county" can be
compared to a German district) because the counting machines there
failed to account for about a thousand ballots. Since this county
typically votes Democratic, Al Gore hopes to gain votes through a
hand recount and ultimately defeat Bush.

The problem is that time is running out, and the hand recount should
have begun already. By December 12, the electors must be
definitively appointed so that they can cast their official votes on
December 18 and elect the president. But the hand recount can take
time. In Florida, the state legislature is already threatening to
simply appoint the electors themselves if there is still no proper,
official election result by December 12. The problem is that the
state legislature in Florida has a Republican majority (the same
party to which George Bush belongs) and would thus appoint
Republican-leaning electors. Allegedly, this is supposed to be legal,
but I find it quite dubious, as the votes of the people in Florida
would not be considered at all.

Regarding the media: They behaved very much like the American media
on election night, as they did not shy away from spreading reports
(in the pursuit of higher ratings) that were based only on vague
predictions--and were also completely wrong. For instance, Florida
was first called for Al Gore, then for Bush. Only afterward did they
report that the result was too close to call and that all votes would
need to be counted. Such false reports can indeed influence the
election outcome, as, due to the different time zones, polling
stations on the West Coast are still open while counting is already
underway in other states.

The narrow election result also clearly reflects the state of the
nation. None of the candidates really impressed all Americans, and
the country seems like a divided nation. The coastal states and those
around the Great Lakes (a traditional stronghold of unions) went to
the more liberal Gore, who advocates for better social programs,
environmental protection, improved healthcare, stricter gun laws,
reducing national debt, and more government control (a very sensitive
topic in America). Meanwhile, the states in the middle went to the
conservative Bush, who promotes tax cuts (especially for the
wealthy), the right to bear arms, strengthening the military,
voluntary environmental protection, and as little government
regulation as possible. I wonder how anyone can be so mentally
deranged as to vote for Bush, but I seem to keep forgetting that San
Francisco cannot be compared to the rest of the USA. Not only is
voter turnout in San Francisco always impressive by American standards
(around 80% in this election, compared to about 50% nationwide), but
San Francisco leans toward liberal candidates, with many in San
Francisco finding Al Gore too backward and most preferring to vote
for Ralph Nader of the American Greens. In general, I find it
interesting that everyone openly talks about whom they voted for; it
is absolutely not a taboo.

Perhaps you are also interested in how the voter registration
process works here in the US. There is no mandatory city registration
of citizens like In Germany. In San Francisco,
for example, you often encounter people in public places or on the
subway who are running around with lists that you can sign to
register as a voter. Alternatively, authorities like the DMV send out
registration forms. Only American citizens who are at least 18 years
old are eligible to vote. Those who only have a Green Card or a visa
are not allowed to vote. In most American states, convicted felons
are also not allowed to vote, and in a few states, this restriction
even applies for life, which is quite draconian.

Well, American courts have to decide. This is another one of
these American phenomena: suing at every opportunity. I also find it
fascinating that a major state crisis hasn't erupted because of this
election disaster. There are increasingly voices saying that enough is
enough, but no one criticizes the system per se. Even in the greatest
chaos, it is repeatedly emphasized how well and democratically
everything is going and how grateful people are to live "in the
greatest country" in the world. I find that quite strange. The fact
that foreign countries are making fun of America is, of course, not
mentioned. Be that as it may, it remains exciting...

TODO

<em>Michael</em> 
Finally, finally it's my turn! Regarding today's newsletter quiz
question: For which candidate would Angelika have voted if she had
been allowed to vote? Haha, just kidding. Regarding the election, I
just wanted to add that Figure 2 clearly shows how Republicans and
Democrats divide the country: the middle for Bush and the coastal
areas for Gore. And although at first glance it looks like Bush won
by a landslide in terms of area, it ultimately almost ended in a tie,
because the states in the middle of the USA are much less densely
populated and therefore have fewer electoral votes.

@Z: At the headquarters of AOL

<pic images/aol.ps At the headquarters of AOL>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, I was in Dulles, Virginia, for a few days to take care of
some things at AOL. On the way home, when our flight was delayed and
we wanted to quickly grab some lunch, my colleague Chris and I came
across a tavern advertising its beer with an "Oktoberfest" sign. Next
door was a McDonald's, so we quickly decided to combine food from one
place with a drink from the other. Suddenly, a group of
German-speaking gentlemen rushed by--and I couldn't believe my eyes,
among them was the actor Armin Mueller-Stahl! You know, the
gray-haired guy with the mustache who also appears in many American
films (like "Night on Earth" by Jim Jarmusch, for example). He also
noticed the "Oktoberfest" sign, slowed down, and went back, seemingly
intending to grab a beer, but then changed his mind and took off
again. And that in Dulles, Virginia! I wonder what he was doing
there?

@Z: Green Day" is already in English. It is the name of an American
rock band. If you are referring to something else, please provide
more context.

<em>Michael</em> 
Now for the local news. Those who have purchased the new album
"Warning" by the world-famous group "Green Day" may have wondered
what the following lyrics mean:

\begin{verse}

<pic images/greenday.ps One of Michael's favorite bands: Green Day
from Berkeley>

City by the Bay" naturally refers to San Francisco, and "Mr. Whirly,"
who faced misfortune, had to sell his house and spend the night in
the "Haight," the neighborhood in San Francisco where the last
hippies live. Because the Golden Gate Park is so close, where you can
sleep in the woods at night, albeit uncomfortably but for free, this
area is particularly popular with the homeless, which also includes
many young runaways. If the stock prices keep falling like this,
we'll be there soon too! No, no, just kidding, please don't send
money yet. No, what I meant to say is: The world-famous band "Green
Day," which I already enjoyed listening to in Munich, comes from
Berkeley--right next to San Francisco, on the opposite side of the
Bay Bridge.

@Z: Weintipps

<em>Michael</em> 
To our wine section: Paula Bosch from the SÃ¼ddeutsche Zeitung has
not yet responded, so our tips don't seem to be completely wrong.
Here comes the next one: During one of our excursions through the
Sonoma Valley, we stumbled upon an excellent Zinfandel wine. And I am
not afraid to shout this to the world: The St. Francis, "Old Vines",
Zinfandel, 1998 is so powerful, it will knock you off your feet. An
extraordinary aroma of raspberries and vanilla. As mentioned before,
this is, of course, red Zinfandel; no sensible person drinks the pink
stuff. Ideal for dishes with garlic or other spicy foods. It costs
$22, not cheap, but the money is well spent.

<pic images/francis.ps Good Wine: St. Francis, "Old Vines", Zinfandel
1998>

@Z: Redefreiheit

<em>Michael</em> 
Now to Michael's main topic of the day: Freedom of speech in the USA!
The Constitution here has several additions, the so-called
Amendments. The First Amendment is "Freedom of Speech," which is
truly worth discussing here and is not as restricted as in Germany.


The strange English is due to the fact that a) it is a legal text and
b) from 1791. So far, so dry. Let me explain the meaning of this part
of the Constitution with a practical example: If you want to insult
someone in the USA, you don't tap your forehead with your index
finger -- this gesture doesn't mean anything bad, at most it means: I
am smart. No one pays any attention to it at all, which often happens
to me when I'm out on my bike, some idiot cuts me off, I shout and
give the bird, and only get puzzled looks in return. It's always very
funny, but these are behaviors programmed in over decades that I
unfortunately can't turn off.

No, seriously, here, the middle finger is used to seriously insult
someone. And the good thing about it: It's constitutionally approved
by the aforementioned "Amendment" and not punishable. No kidding, the
insulted person can't do anything about it, except, of course, draw a
gun and shoot, but we'll cover gun laws in the next newsletter. You
can also shout "You @#$@!" Insert the worst swear word you
know--whatever you want to say or imply, you can express it
completely without penalty, no problem. As long as you don't touch
the other person, everything is allowed. However, if you cross that
line, there are draconian penalties. If you just touch someone with
your finger, they can immediately drag you to court and sue you for
millions. Verbal or gestural insults, however, are absolutely
meaningless--when I tell my American colleagues that in Germany
drivers report each other because someone tapped their forehead, they
laugh their heads off.

There are two exceptions to "verbal abuse," or "spoken abuse": You
are not allowed to shout "Fire, fire!" in a crowded cinema. And you
are not allowed to threaten to kill the President of the USA. A
colleague once told me that one of his classmates wrote something
like that in a school essay, and the police immediately showed up.
Seriously, only these two exceptions are punishable by law;
everything else is protected by the Constitution.

Our friend Greg once irrefutably proved the validity of the First
Amendment by giving the finger to all the drivers on the highway for
no reason during his drive home from work -- and received one or two
disapproving looks, but no aggression. He even claimed that one could
insult police officers at will, but the intrepid newsletter reporter
didn't want to test that out.

Freedom of Speech" also means that every political party here has
unrestricted freedom of speech. The first immigrants to the USA were
persecuted by political or religious institutions, seeking protection
here, and that's why the founding fathers enshrined unrestricted
freedom of speech and religion as one of the most important and
comprehensive principles. This is also the reason why Americans often
look disapprovingly at Germany when the Scientology sect is
persecuted again -- here, that would be unthinkable and would trigger
a revolution.

By the way, the previously mentioned freedom of speech does not apply
to radio or television -- this is strictly controlled by an authority
called the FCC (Federal Communications Commission). For example, it
is not allowed to say even "ScheiÃe!" (Shit!) on the radio or
television. Therefore, for current rap songs, which do not shy away
from using crude and even cruder words, there is usually the original
version on CD, which bears the sticker "Parental Advisory -- EXPLICIT
LYRICS" ("Warning to all parents: Explicit language"), and the radio
version, from which the indecent words have already been edited out
by the record company using sophisticated technical means. The music
continues to play in the background while the singer suddenly cannot
be heard. This is often quite silly, because in 9 out of 10 cases,
you can easily deduce the missing word from the rhyming lines.

\begin{verse}

<pic images/springer.ps Things are getting wild on the Jerry Springer
Show. The security guards are preventing the participants from
beating each other up.>

Talk show television programs, where people hurl insults at each
other (such as "Jerry Springer"), are edited before airing, and
indecent words are drowned out by a beep (English: Bleep). When
things really get heated, you often can't hear the text anymore
because of all the bleeping. This is also a popular source of humor:
when someone is speaking on TV and suddenly every other word is
drowned out by a beep, it always causes laughter because you know the
person is using a lot of indecent words. Ha. Haha.

In live broadcasts, the technical effort naturally increases. From a
notorious radio show called "Lamont and Tonelli" on 92.3 KSJO, which
I used to listen to on the drive from San Francisco to Mountain View
until a year ago (now I listen to Howard Stern on 105.3 when I
drive), I know that it is broadcast with a 20-second (!) delay. The
hosts are, of course, seasoned pros who never let a bad word slip
and, in case of doubt, use a made-up word that sounds similar --
that's legal. But on the mentioned radio show, regular people are
also allowed to call in and express their opinions unfiltered. If
someone uses an indecent word, a censor employed by the radio
triggers an alarm, and the offending sentence is -- in real-time! --
muted, and the listeners hear the sound of a toilet flushing instead
of the rest of the sentence. When you imagine how that works, it
makes your head spin. According to my theory, this 20-second safety
interval must shrink with each incident until the station staff have
to play three minutes of music from a super-fast CD player to refill
the safety buffer.

In cinemas and on pay TV, however, offensive language is permitted --
but the film is then rated for ages 13 and up, and the posters warn
of "adult language." Now, on to the news from Church Street.

@Z: Localnews

<pic images/salat.ps A week of downtime due to computer upgrades>

<em>Michael</em> 
Last week, I spent time under the living room table with my unscrewed
computer. Recklessly, I had bought new hardware from an online
retailer. For the insiders: a 30 GB hard drive and a Netgear RT314
router. Now I'm in seventh heaven, and Angelika is also surfing the
internet at top speed from her computer, as the little router simply
turns one DSL connection into two. And one more unfortunate piece of
news: our newspaper vendor can no longer get the SÃ¼ddeutsche Zeitung
from his distributor. This hurts a lot because we used to shell out
$4.50 every Saturday to read the magazine that comes with the Friday
edition. Tip for visitors: you could make us very happy if you bring
us one, two, or many SZ magazines, it doesn't matter from when,
they're just timelessly good.

<pic images/mall.ps Taken with the new digital camera: In the parking
lot of the shopping mall>

@Z: Entensuppe

<pic images/suepple.ps Lunch: Chinese duck soup -- delicious!>

<em>Michael</em> 
Angelika gave me a digital camera for my birthday, and now I spend
all day taking pictures of the silliest things. Whether I'm shopping,
at work, or having lunch--the camera is always with me. For those
wondering where I'm skillfully eating lunch with chopsticks in one of
the pictures, I'll tell you straight out: In Mountain View, there
aren't many good restaurants, but once a week, my colleague Hoang and
I visit one that's also incredibly cheap: a Chinese restaurant on
Castro Street, whose name I can't mention here, as I don't want
millions of newsletter readers showing up--after all, even a
superstar needs their privacy! I'll just say this: there are roasted
ducks hanging in the window. They have the best noodle soup with duck
in the whole world. Unfortunately, the photo is a bit blurry because
Hoang was laughing while taking it, the old goof. Oh well, it was
fun!

@Z: Rundbrief-Topprodukt

<em>Michael</em> 
And since America is always slightly ahead of the rest of the world,
at least in the consumer goods sector, we want to introduce you in
Europe to something special with the current newsletter top product.
Things that you can't buy at home yet, but that might soon make their
way over. Then you can say, "I already know it, I don't need it, I
read about it in the newsletter a year ago!" when someone proudly
shows off a newly acquired product. And to be clear: You won't find
our suggestions in America's forest areas or suburbs. This is only
about the mega-trendy products that are only available in mega-trendy
metropolises like New York or San Francisco. Right now, everything
Japanese is mega-trendy here. People go on vacation to Japan--we
might try it next year. People eat Japanese food, for example, in
Japantown in San Francisco. And, most recently: People shop in
Japanese supermarkets, where even die-hard Japan enthusiasts get
overwhelmed because they can't even read the product packaging.

<pic images/miso.ps Today's newsletter top product: Japanese miso
soup>

@Z: Japanese supermarkets

<em>Michael</em> 
Here's the translation:

"During a lunch break, I once stopped by the 'Nijia' supermarket with
my Japanese colleague Rika and had her explain the products to me. On
one hand, there were things I already knew from restaurants, like
'Edamame' (soybeans served as an appetizing starter or snack, which
you boil, salt, and then pop out of their bean-like pods), Miso soup
(fermented soy mixed with hot water and usually enriched with seaweed
and tofu chunks), and on the other hand, there were products that
were new to me, like dried shrimp that you eat like potato chips from
a bag and that smell like fish food for an aquarium. When Angelika
eats them, I feel sick. And cold coffee with milk and sugar from a
drink can, the product's name: 'Boss Sharp'. Super delicious! Today's
top product: The instant Miso soup, which you just have to unpack and
pour hot water over. Unfortunately, I can't tell you the product's
name because I don't know Japanese. However, in Figure 10, you can
see what the package looks like. It's important to buy the same brand
because, according to the expert, the soup otherwise doesn't taste as
good. So, that's it for today from our colorful world in San
Francisco. Take care, until the next newsletter!

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

