
San Francisco, 12-17-2000

@Z: Xmas Greetings

<pic images/weih2000.ps Christmas greetings from Angelika and Michael>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Christmas is just around the corner. During this time of year, people
often like to reflect and think critically about various things. I am
taking this opportunity in our Christmas letter to address a very hot
topic -- even at the risk that not everyone will be thrilled. Please
forgive me if there isn't only "peace and joy" to unwrap.

While here in America everyone is discussing the ongoing topic of the
"presidential election," over there, it's all about the "German
guiding culture." This term has really got me thinking. What exactly
does it mean? Even the countless articles and comments in the
SÃ¼ddeutsche Zeitung and the New York Times didn't really help me
understand it. So, just for fun, I'm turning the tables. What if
Michael and I were to follow the "American guiding culture" here in
the USA?

Does this mean that from now on we should only speak English at home
and only read American authors? Would German newspapers and news
still be okay? Would we have to honor Thanksgiving, the most sacred
of all American holidays, even though I find the national dish,
turkey, far too dry and see nothing more in this holiday than a nice
long weekend? Would we be expected to wave flags and admire the
traditional fireworks on July 4th, America's Independence Day? Should
we sing along to the American national anthem and place our hand on
our heart at the start of baseball or football games in the stadium?
Would we still be allowed to traditionally open our presents on the
evening of December 24th, or would we have to move everything to the
morning of the 25th, as the Americans do? Would an Advent wreath
still be okay, or would the Christmas tree have to be fully decorated
and adorned with electric candles in the living room by the first
Advent weekend, as is customary here?

I can already hear your outcry: That's ridiculous! No one cares about
when someone puts up their Christmas tree! Hmm, maybe. But what if
Muslims in Germany insist that their "Ramadan" is honored and do not
want their children to participate in school Christmas celebrations?

You can already tell that I find the debate about the "German
Leitkultur" as misplaced as can be. I even find the choice of words
questionable, as a lot of negative connotations can be interpreted
into this term. It sounds as if there is a superior culture that
everyone should follow. Even the New York Times had difficulty
translating this term into English. The article sometimes left
"Leitkultur" as it is or attempted "Guiding Culture." I believe that
the discussions should focus much more on finding approaches for
constructive coexistence. Here are a few examples to ponder:

Michael came home recently and told me that his colleague, a Muslim,
doesn't schedule meetings on Friday mornings because he goes to the
mosque for prayers - no problem. Michael is also currently enjoying
the fact that his other colleague, usually a table tennis ace, is
strictly fasting for Ramadan and now always loses to Michael because
he feels a bit unsteady on his feet (just a side note for your
amusement). Then there's the American compromise, where everyone gets
so-called "personal holidays" that they can take whenever they want.
This way, the Chinese can celebrate their New Year, the Jew can
celebrate Hanukkah, the atheist can take their birthday off, and
Michael can take the second day of Christmas off. However, there are
no additional days off for Easter and Pentecost, and only the 25th is
a holiday for Christmas.

Sometimes, Americans really do think quite practically. And so that
you don't accuse me of being completely Americanized and not critical
enough of the USA, I'll quickly add that, conversely, I find the
belief of most Americans quite strange that their country is the
greatest of all and that everyone should be grateful to live here.
During the election campaign, this almost naive pride in their own
country was heard repeatedly from the mouths of both George Bush and
Al Gore--and neither of them thought anything of it. The phrase "God
bless America!" is also meant quite literally. On the other hand,
immigrants are certainly allowed to express their own culture, as
long as America's security is not threatened. This is why you find
neighborhoods like North Beach (Italian district), Japantown, or
Chinatown in San Francisco, where you not only encounter the culinary
delights of each country (including the Japanese supermarket that
Michael mentioned in the last newsletter), but also where there is
room to express the unique cultural characteristics, which is also
reflected in the streetscape. This always fascinates many visitors in
San Francisco. In Chinatown, you can immerse yourself a little in
another world.

And finally, a note on the topic of "bilingualism." In my opinion, it
is far too often overlooked and underutilized as an advantage. Yes,
it is sensible and necessary for foreigners in Germany or elsewhere
to speak the language of the country. I certainly couldn't imagine
living here without knowledge of English. Nevertheless, it is
important to continue nurturing one's native language and to speak it
within one's own home. Bilingualism is a plus, not a flaw.

So, now I'll stop with the serious topics again. All that's left is
for me to wish you all a Merry Christmas.

And in the spirit of bilingualism: Merry Christmas!

Angelika und Michael
