San Francisco, 03-10-2001

@Z: Guided Tour Through Chinatown

<pic images/button.ps Angelika shows her tourist button. Local man, looking doubtful, suspects something terrible.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Even after more than four years in San Francisco, we keep finding
hidden attractions in the city. So, from time to time, Angelika and I
disguise ourselves as German tourists: backpack on our backs, camera
bag around our necks, Levi's 501 jeans, trekking shoes, and fleece
jackets on! Then we blend into the hustle and bustle of the tourist
area around Powell, stand in line for two hours at the cable car, and
laugh at the same old jokes from the black musicians there! No, that
was an exaggeration, but Angelika recently discovered that there is a
tour through Chinatown that takes you to the most exotic restaurants
in the area, the kind you would never enter alone for fear of food
poisoning or the Chinese mafia.

<pic images/noodles.ps In the kitchen, pasta (above) and fried bread (below) are waiting.>

We met with the tour guide in the morning at 9:00 at "Wokwiz" on Commercial
Street 645 in Downtown San Francisco. We paid the hair-raising price
of $70 per person and then kept eating practically non-stop until the early
afternoon hours. Because of the early hour, of course, it started
with breakfast, and after we had already wondered whether people in
China also eat bread and jam for breakfast, we received a negative
answer: There was a rice-based porridge with skin-on pork and black
chunks in it. Super delicious! The black chunks turned out to be
so-called "century eggs." Since the Chinese were not familiar with
preservatives for a long time, they used the following method to
preserve duck eggs long-term: The raw eggs with shells were embalmed
with a mixture of ash, black tea, and lemon, buried in potting soil,
and retrieved after exactly 100 days. "Thousand years old" is
therefore shamelessly exaggerated, but that's probably just a saying.
The egg white turns completely gray during storage, and the yolk
becomes dark gray-green. These chunks are then mixed as a specialty
with the rice porridge. Additionally, there was fried bread that
tasted somewhat like donuts. Something different for breakfast! The
other customers in the restaurant (by the way, all Asians) were
eating the same or slurping noodle soups.

<pic images/dimsum.ps A good dim sum shop.>

<pic images/aqua.ps In the aquarium, the treats are waiting.>

Next stop: Dim Sum. There, waitresses are pushing small carts with all sorts of
delicacies through the restaurant, and you just have to point at the items
to get a portion on your table. This form of early lunch (modern
term: brunch) was established by Chinese businessmen who would meet
for morning tea and, as it got closer to noon, developed a craving
for small snacks. Angelika and I often do this on weekends; there is
an excellent Dim Sum restaurant in San Francisco on Battery Street,
where all sorts of things pass by on the carts, even chicken feet,
with toes and all. But I don't really like those because they're so
rubbery. Otherwise, I'll eat everything! Allegedly, Dim Sum places
used to calculate the price of the meal based on the number of plates
left on the table. The story goes that there was once a Dim Sum
restaurant by a river, and guests would secretly let the plates slide
into the river after devouring the treats! Nowadays, a bill is placed
on the table, and the server either stamps it or writes down a price
when you take a dish from the cart.

<pic images/ente1.ps The roasted ducks are still hanging in the shop window.>

<pic images/ente2.ps The tour guide went inside and had a duck carved and packed.>

Have you ever seen those roasted ducks hanging in the window in
Chinatown? They are nicely crispy brown, and the head, feet, and
everything are still attached. I had mentioned in a previous newsletter
that I frequent to such a place once a week to eat duck soup. Now, during
the tour, we were allowed to pick a duck, then we went into the
shop with the tour guide, where the duck was taken down from the
rack, chopped into small pieces with a cleaver, and packed into a
styrofoam box. The duck was so juicy that it splattered everywhere!
We ate the delicious bites on the street. Quite fatty, but good! We
needed several napkins to get our fingers clean again. Phew, how
about a nice cup of tea now?

<pic images/ceremony.ps The tour guide is showing the tea ceremony. Angelika (bottom left) is enjoying life.>

In Asian countries, it is well known that people enjoy drinking green
tea. It differs from the black tea commonly consumed in the West only
in that the tea leaves are not left to ferment but are processed
beforehand. Green tea is therefore completely green and tastes somewhat
grassy to the unaccustomed palate. However, one gets used to it, and
by now we have truly developed a preference for this type of tea.
And, of course, you don't just throw the tea into a pot of hot water
by a tea bag and gulp it down greedily; instead, you perform the tea
ceremony.

This is an old tradition where people sit together, chat, and slowly,
slowly prepare the tea. A very fine tea is selected, placed in a
microscopically small pot, hot but not boiling water is poured over
it, left to steep for 30 seconds, and then the finished tea is poured
into cups. "Cups" is an exaggeration; they are just a little bigger
than a thimble. And the first round of tea is only poured to warm the
cups, because immediately afterward, the first batch is discarded!
The second batch is the one you drink. By the way, the cups don't
have handles, because you should be able to tell with your fingertips
whether the tea is at the right drinking temperature and not too hot.

<pic images/buytea.ps In the tea shop, business is running well.>

<pic images/teaprice.ps The price of a pound of the finest tea is up to 120 dollars.>

We stocked up on the necessary supplies at the tea shop, although we
couldn't buy the most expensive tea, as it cost $120 per pound! You
probably have to drink tea for years to be able to taste that
difference. You can also buy all sorts of medicinal stuff by the
pound in Chinatown: ginseng roots, shark fins, everything has its
significance in Chinese medicine. Angelika once knew someone who
always went to a doctor in Chinatown, who then prescribed all sorts
of things. And it supposedly worked wonders!

<pic images/ginseng.ps The tour guide explains the benefits of the ginseng root.>

For lunch, we went to a Chinese restaurant, but we were already
almost stuffed and relieved that this concluded the tour. By the way,
authentic Chinese restaurants in the USA often have two different
menus: one in English and one in Chinese. With the group of people I
often have lunch with at Netscape, we found out through
Chinese-speaking colleagues that the Chinese menu is not just a
translation of the English one, but offers its own dishes! In the
case of the restaurant in Mountain View, we discovered that they
actually had a dish made from snake meat! We speculated about what
kind of snake it might be, and a joker in the group suggested that it
was probably the "catch of the day."

Back to our Chinatown tour: The best part, of course, was
that we could take photos without any restrictions. This is usually
not well-received in Chinatown, but in a tour group, you're just a
silly tourist who is allowed to do as they please because they
wouldn't understand anyway if you explained what bothers you about
it. "Huh? Don't understand!". Haha, I'm happy to pay seventy dollars
for that!

@Z: Newsletter Top Product

<pic images/sobe.ps The current newsletter top product: The juice from SoBe>

TODO

<em>Michael</em> 
And once again, we have a top product in our newsletter! Today: the
juices from the company SoBe. No, that's not a sharp "Ã" you're
seeing, but a capital "B"--so don't let anyone say "SoÃe," it's
pronounced "Sohbie"! By the way, "SoBe" stands for "South Beach,"
which is the name of the beverage company based in the US state of
Connecticut. They make extraordinary juices from fruits and
vegetables, enriched with various herbs and exotic teas. I'm not a
health fanatic, but in America, you probably become one sooner or
later. All the juices are super delicious and currently a huge hit
with kids and teenagers--Angelika discovered them during her
photography courses at the Berkeley Extension. By the way, I'm not
recommending the sugar-free "SoBe Lean" variant here, but only the
full version. I particularly like "SoBe Energy (Guarana, Yohimbe,
Arginine)" and "SoBe Elixir (Cranberry, Grapefruit)." But actually,
they're all good, each one better than the last! You can find more
information on the web at www.sobebev.com. Only genuine with the two
lizards on it! Additionally, the bottles have a pleasantly wide
neck--I usually can't pour drinks from conventional bottles into my
throat fast enough; you always have to let air bubble in, and that's
annoying when time is money! The rim of the SoBe bottle is about
three centimeters in diameter, which is exemplary.

@Z: Movies and Movie Stars in San Francisco

<pic images/movie.ps Once again a film crew in San Francisco>

<em>Michael</em> 
In San Francisco, as expected, many films are shot. It is, after all,
one of the most beautiful cities in the world, and besides, there are
these insanely steep streets here. Recently, I found out that two of
them have a record-breaking incline of 31.5%: Filbert Street, which
runs parallel to the famous winding Lombard Street, and 22nd Street,
which steeply descends right around the corner from us. With the
beautiful old Victorian houses and the quaint neighborhoods, it's no
wonder that many films are shot here. The following productions
immediately come to mind: Mrs. Doubtfire and Dirty Harry. In the
latter (shot sometime in the '70s), to my surprise, Dirty Harry
chased a villain up a side street called "Osgood Place" in the North
Beach district. Osgood Place--where the branch of the company
"Blaxxun Interactive" was, with which I came to San Francisco back
then! Man, those were the days! Anyway--what I actually wanted to
point out is that films are constantly being shot in San Francisco,
and streets are always being closed off somewhere so that film crews
can shoot their kissing scenes, shootouts, and car chases. The film
stars stay in trailers. As Figure 1311 shows, there are even
companies that specialize in outfitting such trailers. If I ever have
to travel from TV show to TV show, I'll buy one of those too.

<pic images/movie2.ps Film star caravan in San Francisco>

Accordingly, quite a few movie stars are seen walking around on the
street. In our neighborhood on 24th Street, Julia Roberts was
recently spotted at the coffee shop "Martha" with her new beau
Benjamin Bratt, as the man from the video store excitedly told me. If
I had been at Martha's at the time, I would have naturally ignored
them, as I can't stand them! Maybe they would have recognized me
first: "Aren't you ... the author of ... 'Perl Power'? Tina, come
over here quickly ...", oh, it's such a burden to be famous. I still
like to go shopping in jeans and a sweater without everyone
immediately asking me for an autograph.

@Z: Wine of the Month

<pic images/deloach.ps A great wine: the DeLoach Zinfandel 1998>

<em>Michael</em> 
And here is our popular section again: The best wines from
California! Today: The "DeLoach Zinfandel 1998". I unknowingly bought
it from our favorite supermarket "Costco" while Angelika was out of
the country. I also unknowingly opened it when Thomas and Helmut came
to visit. Only after we had surprisingly emptied the bottle did I
look it up on the internet and found out that it had received scores
of up to 90 out of 100 in official reviews! For red wine, that's
absolute top class, as there are hardly any wines under 20 dollars
that achieve that.

@Z: Photo of the Month

<pic images/cop.ps A motorcycle cop writes a ticket for a new VW Beetle.>

<em>Michael</em> 
And here is the photo of the month, chosen by the newsletter team: A
motorcycle cop is writing a ticket for a "New Beetle" parked at an
expired parking meter. I'm still waiting for offers from the
Volkswagen company! Unfortunately, Angelika couldn't participate in
this photo competition, which will now be held monthly among the
newsletter writers, due to her stay in Germany. What a pity! She'll
get a chance next time!

@Z: Once every four years: Germany

<pic images/schnee.ps Intrepid newsletter reporters in their tour van in Germany>

<em>Michael</em> 
And here is the sensation! The two intrepid newsletter reporters
boarded a plane, got off the same plane 11 hours later, and suddenly
found themselves in a parallel universe called "Munich"! While
Angelika makes this trip almost every year, I actually hadn't been to
Germany for a full four years. I tell you, it was a culture shock of
the highest order.

The first thing I noticed were the green and white police cars. I
felt like I was in a TV movie from the 60s or 70s, like "Monaco
Franze" or "MÃ¼nchner G'schichten." On the drive from Munich Airport
to Augsburg-Land, I couldn't stop laughing at the most ridiculous
things: signs with the word "Fremdenzimmer" (guest rooms), for
example. Or the fact that traffic lights are generally positioned
before the intersection, so if you're the first at the red light, you
practically have to twist your neck to see if it finally changes. The
pedestrian lights with little figures instead of the "Walk" and
"Don't Walk" signs! You're probably thinking I'm completely crazy,
but after four years, you really reprogram your brain quite a bit.

<pic images/ampel.ps Funny pedestrian traffic light>

Just like "Wait to be seated" has become ingrained in me. At the
restaurant "Die Ecke" in Augsburg, I stood at the entrance and wanted
to wait until the staff assigned me a seat, but fortunately, Angelika
quickly pointed out to me that in Germany, even in fine
establishments, you seat yourself at a table.

If Rudi opens a pub, it's called Rudi's Pub. The pet food store is
called Kira's Pet World. Aaahhh! That's a genitive "s" and is added
without an apostrophe! So: Rudis Kneipe. Kiras Futterwelt. But Max
Goldt once wrote that one shouldn't nitpick about other people's
spelling, as that would be arrogant, so I don't want to be like that.

<pic images/apo.ps A Funny Apostrophe>

You are probably wondering if I had any difficulties with the
language. Actually, only once: On the Lufthansa flight from San
Francisco to Munich, the German stewardess asked me if I wanted
another beer. Since I had been speaking English with my seat neighbor
until then, I wanted to say "No thanks, I'm fine!" but translated it
too hastily and cheerfully exclaimed, "Thank you, I'm fine!" -- to
which the stewardess burst out laughing and exclaimed, "That's nice
to hear!" because I had already had a beer and was a bit tipsy! Oh
yes, it was nice.

<pic images/augsburg.ps Rain in Augsburg>

The weather was amazing -- after initially dumping 20cm of snow,
which then melted and was followed by rain, we finally had three days
of fantastic FÃ¶hn weather. In Munich, we sat outside for an hour at
a cafÃ© in the pedestrian zone, squinting into the sun!

<pic images/bier.ps The unbeatable good beer>

And how good is the beer! Augustiner, Andechser, and the Kellerbier
from the UnionsbrÃ¤u in Munich -- oh my, that was delicious! I had
completely forgotten, I thought the American microbrews were
comparable. In short: They are not. Not even close. The brewers here
in the USA still have a lot to learn!

<pic images/hofpfisterei.ps To the Hofpfisterei, I always go, there I buy my Pfister bread, I like it every day!>

The famous German bread didn't really impress me, as heavy bread
isn't really my thing, and I've always preferred white bread. And in
San Francisco, there are excellent bakeries that bake my favorite
bread, the Italian "Ciabatta," super crispy and even sell it in our
supermarket!

<pic images/m1.ps At Stachus in Munich>

I had completely forgotten how extensive the residential areas in
Munich are! In America, everyone lives in bungalows; there are no
five-story apartment buildings made of stone anywhere. In San
Francisco, I've gotten so used to this chaos -- one person paints
their house purple, another hangs out a rainbow flag, and a third has
a funny sign in the window. However, I remembered Germany as being
much cleaner. I always chuckle to myself in San Francisco when old
newspaper scraps blow through the streets and constantly tell my
colleagues that in Germany you could eat off the ground, the streets
were swept so clean -- and what do I find? Everything is totally
neglected! Potholes in the middle ring in Munich! Soon, newspaper
scraps will be blowing through the alleys in Laim too, and I'll laugh
and shout: "I know this already, I don't need it, I already saw it
back in San Francisco!".

<pic images/mwohn.ps Residential area in Munich>

<pic images/sfm.ps For comparison: The mission in San Francisco>

The most difficult thing was, of course, the BSE. I had already
dreamed of white sausages and liver loaf, and then I couldn't eat any
of it! Well, at Max's there were excellent turkey white sausages that
tasted like the real thing. Even McDonald's now has a pork burger
called the "McFarmer." On the Lufthansa flight, we were offered "beef
from Argentina." In Munich, I ate roast pork with dumplings twice
because of this, once at UnionsbrÃ¤u and once at Forsthaus
WÃ¶rnbrunn. By the way, I wanted to add that my hairdresser Paolo
from Friedenheimer StraÃe in Munich, whom I naturally visited, knows
the chef from "Forsthaus WÃ¶rnbrunn," Andi Geitel, because he used to
play soccer with him! So the circle closes.

<pic images/mcdonald.ps McDonald's now has a pork burger.>

The strong dollar "goes a long way" in Germany. When you compare food
prices in restaurants, you end up paying almost half as much. And CDs
are really cheap! On sale, they cost 20 Marks, while in the USA, you
can't find anything for less than $12.99. I stocked up generously on
"Haindling," "Eros Ramazzotti," "Modern Talking," "Dschingis Khan,"
"Falco," and compilations of folk music to give my colleagues at work
something to smile about. Lev, a Russian at Netscape, had previously
told me that he was really into the 70s hit "Moskau" by Dschingis
Khan: When I handed him the CD, he was almost beside himself with
joy!

But the gasoline! My jaw dropped when I had to shell out 80 Marks for
a fairly full tank. That would have only cost 20 dollars in America.
I also noticed the many small cars like the "Smart" -- I haven't seen
any of those in America yet.

Driving a car! I was absolutely amazed at the high level at which
Germans drive. No one changes lanes on the highway without looking or
signaling, no one suddenly stops in the middle of the street for
inexplicable reasons, and no one makes any major mistakes. According
to cautious estimates by the newsletter editorial team, about 20% of
Americans would never pass a German driving test, even after
approximately 1,200 hours of driving. How smoothly things progress on
German roads! The American, on the other hand, lives by the
principle: "Oops, here I come!" And if they have to stop, they don't
care at all if someone behind them has to brake and stop because of
it. In our neighborhood in San Francisco, there are already signs
everywhere that make double parking punishable by a $100 fine -- but
people still do it. This is, by the way, a general American
phenomenon that also applies in other social situations: Even in the
longest lines at the supermarket, the American still takes the time
to leisurely dig out their stupid credit card from their wallet or
laboriously write a check for a $5 bill. Or casually order dessert in
a restaurant while crowds of people are waiting at the door.

<pic images/zigaretten.ps Zigarettenautomaten>

Cigarette vending machines! In America, anyone who wants to buy
cigarettes anywhere must show an ID and prove they are at least 18/21
years old (depending on the state). In Germany, anyone who is tall
enough to insert 6 marks can operate the vending machine!

<pic images/smart.ps Small cars at moon prices for gasoline!>

What I found really pleasant was how polite the sales staff in
Germany suddenly are. I remembered it quite differently! From the
small bakery to the cashiers in the big department stores -- people
are now exceptionally friendly. Or the service in the restaurants!
Until now, I had always complained about the "service desert" of
Germany in newsletters, but now I take it all back and claim the
opposite. Respect, respect!

<pic images/shop.ps "Shop till you drop" in Munich>

Shopping in Munich is even more fun when you live in the USA: you
don't have to pay value-added tax (VAT). The easiest way to do this
is as follows: First, you pay the full price including VAT in the
store and receive a confirmation called "Tax Free" for the purchase
price. Before your flight back to the States, you go to the customs
office at the airport, present proof that you reside in the USA, and
then receive about 12% back in cash (not the full 16%, as the rest is
a processing fee). If you return to the country within a year, or
know someone who can visit the store, you can opt for an "Export
Certificate" from the store instead of the "Tax Free." You present
this at the airport customs before departure, have it stamped, and
can then collect the full 16% in cash at the store within a year. In
both cases, you must present a departure ticket and the goods at the
airport. So, it's not a good idea to check in your luggage
beforehand, as you won't get any money.

Since the line at this particular customs office is quite long and
only a single officer is handling the processing, with only one
person allowed in the office at a time, and people often having to
unpack their goods from their suitcases, you need plenty of time
before your flight. There are two lines: one in front of the cashier
and one in front of the processing office. Due to the lack of a sign,
you naturally first join the shorter line, only to find out at the
cashier that you need to go to the office first, and then you
grudgingly move over to the longer line. Well! The customs office is
not eager to give back the 16%, so they make it as difficult as
possible. It's only worth it for larger amounts.

<pic images/telekom.ps Kartentelefone>

These phone card phones everywhere! Luckily, I had a phone card.
However, what puzzled me was how to make a call from a phone booth
without money or a card. Why can't you call a 0130 number from a
phone booth, where the recipient covers the cost anyway? Maybe
someone can enlighten me. In America, you can call free 1-800 numbers
from any public phone booth, use "Call Collect," or call the police
at 911--no change or card needed.

<pic images/wsv.ps Winterschlussverkauf>

Clearance sale! That's an everyday occurrence in America. The stores
always have a sign with "Sale" in the window. There isn't an official
clearance sale; rather, it runs all year long. Or those boards with
the current special offers written in chalk. That seems to be a
German specialty.

<pic images/tafel.ps Special offers marked with chalk>

Here is the translation of the text:

"As far as my impressions as a stranger in my own country go -- in
short: I really enjoyed it, and above all, Angelika and I were
thrilled to meet you all, dear newsletter readers! It was truly an
exciting time for us, and you enriched it so pleasantly. See you in
four years! Make way for Angelika!

<em>Angelika</em> 
Hooray! It's finally my turn. First, let me quickly remind you that
during our stay in Germany, I was not only in Southern Germany but
also in Northern Germany (specifically in Oldenburg). Just so that
doesn't get overlooked. Michael has already shared one or two German
adventures with you, and this time, I'm generously letting him take
the lead, as he hasn't breathed German air for four years.
Nevertheless, I will delight you with a few remarks. You'll just have
to bear with me.

<pic images/kuppel.ps The dome of the new Reichstag>

Berlin is on everyone's lips; even the American AAA magazine (the AAA
is somewhat like the ADAC in Germany, and the magazine corresponds to
the "ADAC Motorwelt") dedicated several pages to the German capital.
During my Sturm und Drang period, I often visited Berlin for love. Of
course, that was still during the time of the Wall, and even then,
this city fascinated me. I had long wanted to visit again, but as is
often the case when you only come to Germany for a short visit, there
is no time for such excursions. However, since Berlin can be easily
reached from Oldenburg in four hours by train, my mother and I
followed the example of the Americans who travel through Europe in 14
days and went to Berlin for two days. I can warmly recommend this to
every newsletter reader. Berlin is not only in motion but also in
transition, as evidenced by the numerous construction sites.
Naturally, we also completed the standard tourist program: the
Reichstag (the new dome is a delight for anyone who enjoys
photography), the Brandenburg Gate (currently wrapped in T-Online
advertising because it is being renovated), Unter den Linden,
FriedrichstraÃe, Berlin Cathedral, Museum Island, Hackesche HÃ¶fe,
Potsdamer Platz, and the New Synagogue. But we also simply strolled
through the streets. I was particularly drawn to the contrasts.
Often, a freshly renovated building stands next to one that is on the
verge of collapse. Precisely because much in Berlin is so
questionable, one approaches it similarly to New York: either you
love this city or you hate it. The newly designed Potsdamer Platz,
which appears hyper-modern like something out of a science fiction
film, is, for example, a project worth discussing. It is also worth
questioning whether it was right that no piece of the Wall remains
standing directly behind the Reichstag. I really struggled to imagine
exactly where the Wall once ran. However, I am full of praise for the
colorful variety of restaurants, pubs, and cafes. And since the
weather in Berlin wasn't exactly warm and I still had a bit of San
Francisco weather in my bones, constantly feeling cold, my mother and
I made extensive use of these offerings.

<pic images/luise.ps View from the window of the artist's home Luise>

The highlight was the hotel "KÃ¼nstlerheim Luise" on LuisenstraÃe,
where we stayed for one night. Each room was designed by a different
artist. Ours was called "Baustelle Deutschland" by Oliver Jordan. We
slept like logs, surrounded by the predominant colors black, red, and
gold, and the portraits of Dutschke, BÃ¶ll, Grass, Brecht, and Anna
Seghers (the ghost train of German literature! Note from Michael).
It's also amusing that the hotel is located right next to the railway
tracks, allowing you to watch the S-Bahn, ICE, etc., pass by. Now you
might exclaim in horror: "Oh no, then you can't sleep because of the
noise!" But that was really not the case, as the windows were
triple-glazed, and for those sensitive to noise, earplugs are
provided as a precaution. The breakfast was also lovely, waiting for
you in a communal kitchen in the morning. If you want to take a
closer look at the hotel, just click on

<pic images/ossi.ps Ossi-Charme: Dilapidated houses next to newer ones>

What amused me greatly in Germany, by the way, are the Anglicisms
that you encounter at every turn. German advertising seems unable to
do without English phrases anymore. When you enter a bookstore, you
feel like you're in an English-speaking country, as titles like "Fit
for Life" immediately catch your eye. Now, you shouldn't think that
I'm as extreme about language purity as the French, who even have
their own word for "computer," but there's no need to overdo it,
especially just to give the impression of being cosmopolitan. That
ends up feeling really forced.

Michael has already written that we shopped diligently in Germany. We
stocked up on everything: Cliff shower gels, Kneipp baths, German
books, Milka chocolate. We just didn't think of the good old Tempos.
And that immediately came back to bite us, as both Michael and I
caught a cold right after our return. When it comes to tissues,
America is really behind the times. Perhaps some of you who have
traveled to America have noticed that tissues are usually only
available for purchase in boxes. But it's extremely impractical to
carry a box around when you're going somewhere. By now, there are
packages that look like Tempo, but the tissues are so bad that they
make you want to cry on top of having a cold. Not only are they as
hard as anything, so that after blowing your nose three times you end
up with a sore nose, but they are also so thin that you might as well
take three at once to prevent the snot from suddenly spreading on
your hand. It really can't be that hard to sell decent tissues that
you can easily put in your pocket! The solution to the mystery, of
course, lies in a cultural peculiarity: Americans stay home with a
box full of tissues when they have a common cold. In these cases, all
appointments are canceled, because nothing is worse for Americans
than going out with a cold and spreading their germs. By the way,
it's also considered impolite to blow your nose at the table in a
restaurant -- for that, Americans go to the restroom. That's why you
don't need tissues to take with you, it's as simple as that!

<pic images/kleenex.ps Family pack of Kleenex tissues for a cold>

My latest story deals once again with one of my "favorite
authorities," namely the American Immigration Office. They are always
good for an adventure. As you all already know, we had to renew our
visas some time ago. That went relatively smoothly, so we can now
safely stay until October 2002.

In the USA, there is a somewhat absurd regulation that allows you to
apply for a visa extension while in the country and receive all the
official documents, but you can only get the stamp (which is now a
self-adhesive label) in your passport outside the USA. Without it,
you can leave the country but cannot re-enter. You might remember
that during one of my visits to Germany, I had to go to the American
consulate in Frankfurt for this reason. There is one exception: under
certain conditions, you can send your passport and the original
confirmation of the visa extension, along with some other paperwork,
to the State Department in Washington, wait 10-12 weeks, and if
you're lucky, you'll get the stamp in your passport.

We decided this time to choose the Washington option, as we hadn't
had time to visit the American consulate in Frankfurt. And what a
miracle, it even worked: The mail didn't get lost, and even my first
name was spelled correctly (with a "k" and not a "c," as is common in
America). Happily, we boarded the plane to Germany and had no worries
about returning. Upon our return, we stood a little tired in the long
"immigration line" at the airport in San Francisco and ended up with
a female immigration officer whose correctness would have made any
German official turn green with envy. After she looked at our
passports and asked Michael where he worked, she actually wanted to
see the original Form I-797. This is the document that confirms how
long we are allowed to stay in the country, and according to the
rules of the immigration office, it must be kept at the company, in
this case, AOL. I knew this and immediately started to argue, earning
disapproving looks from Michael, who already saw us spending the rest
of Saturday surrounded by immigration officers at the airport. As I
said, it was Saturday, otherwise, we could have quickly called AOL to
have them fax this stupid form. Michael was diplomatic, confirming to
the woman that she probably knew the legal situation better than we
did and that we were sorry we couldn't show her the said paper.
Grumbling, she let us go. As it turned out after consulting with our
lawyer later, the immigration officers at the airport do indeed have
the right to ask to see the paper. Unfortunately, the lawyer had
forgotten to inform us of this (grumble!!!). However, the lawyer was
also a bit confused, as the paper is usually not requested. It was
probably the stamp issued in Washington that threw the lady off in
our case. I tell you, without the immigration office, my life would
be downright boring.

Until the next newsletter!

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

P.S.: As always, the newsletter is available live and in color on the
internet -- with images that can be enlarged. Just visit
http://usarundbrief.com!

