San Francisco, 05-01-2001

<pic images/cityhall.ps The scientific community is puzzled over Angelika's photos.>

@Z: Photos in the San Francisco City Hall

<em>Angelika</em> 
Dear newsletter friends!
Hooray! Today I am starting the letter and will be immediately plugging my photo
exhibition at the San Francisco City Hall. Don't be confused, Mayor Willie
Brown has nothing to do with it. Instead, three of my photos are
currently adorning the sacred halls of "City Hall" (that's what
"Rathaus" is called in English) as part of a group exhibition by my
photography group, which I have been a member of for a year and a
half. We call ourselves the "Bay Area Photographers Collective" and
the group consist of about 30 people. "Collective" might sound a bit communist
to your ears, but in America, it's a completely normal term, and you
have to admit that it sounds more elegant than "club." The idea
behind our association is as follows: We support each other in our
photographic ambitions.

<pic images/cityhall5.ps The City Hall -- the town hall of San Francisco>

TODO

Originally, we planned to rent premises, meet there regularly, and
hold exhibitions. However, the tight rental market in San Francisco
quickly showed us that this goal was more wishful thinking than
reality, so we are trying to exhibit our pictures in other locations.
But it's not just about organizing exhibitions for us. We meet to
view each other's photos and provide constructive criticism. We
organize workshops to learn photographic techniques, visit museums
together, or invite photographers to talk about their photos.

Now, back to the town hall. Various exhibitions are regularly held
there--there's even a "curator" who organizes them. If you want to
display photos or similar works in the town hall, you get in touch
with the curator, explain why the town hall is particularly suitable
for the exhibition, show your portfolio, and if you're lucky, you get
the go-ahead. As you can tell, we were lucky because our photos will
be on display from March 20th to May 27th. Anyone who happens to be
in San Francisco during this period is, of course, obliged to stop by
the town hall. You can then admire the photos from 27 members. There
is no specific theme, and each of us has submitted three to four
photos.

<pic images/cityhall2.ps Museum-quality name tags in the exhibition
at the town hall!>

The official exhibition opening took place on March 22nd and was
organized in a highly professional manner. Not only did we have
printed postcards as announcements, which were distributed and sent
everywhere, but we also sent so-called press kits to various
newspapers, hoping that our exhibition would be announced with a
photo in the newspapers' event calendars. In San Francisco, this is
not so easy due to the diverse cultural offerings, but it was indeed
prominently announced in the so-called "Pink Pages" (weekly event
calendar) of the Chronicle (a daily newspaper in San Francisco). At
the exhibition opening, there were easily 400 people. Even Michael,
who is not easily impressed, was astonished. Cynics among you might
now say that such events usually only attract friends or well-meaning
acquaintances. Far from it!!! Even if each of us dragged 10 friends
or acquaintances to the exhibition opening, I would only reach 270.
Ha! And even if you might think I'm approaching delusions of
grandeur, I tell you, there's nothing better than seeing your own
photos hanging on the wall in an exhibition.

<pic images/cityhall3.ps Three pictures in the town hall!>

I was so excited that the day before the exhibition opening, I snuck
into the town hall to stand, completely moved, in front of my own
pictures. It's a good thing no one saw me. At the opening, many
people I didn't know at all--I emphasize, complete
strangers--approached me about my photos. That's what I really love
about Americans; they aren't shy about sharing their enthusiasm and
giving praise. By the way, during the opening, Michael often stood
behind the people looking at my photos to catch their comments, and
he didn't report any devastating criticism to me. But enough about my
photography.

<pic images/cityhall4.ps Angelika photographs details of corners and
edges.>

@Z: Wirtschaftskrise

<em>Angelika</em> 
You have probably already read in various newspapers that the
American economic boom has significantly slowed down. Now, it's one
thing to read about it in the newspaper and another to sit at the
gates of Silicon Valley and witness it live. Michael and I were quite
surprised at how quickly the whole situation changed. As late as the
end of 2000, high-tech companies were desperately looking for people,
and three months later, there were mass layoffs, and newly founded
and highly praised dot-com companies were closing their doors. It was
foreseeable that this couldn't continue indefinitely, as everyone
knows that lean years follow fat ones. Additionally, many of the
young dot-com companies (where "dot" means point and "com" means
commercial, both referring to components in an email address)
received millions in investor money but made absolutely no profit.
And even millions eventually run out.

It is somewhat difficult to understand why even established companies
like Intel, Cisco, etc., which are essentially swimming in money,
have laid off hundreds--and in the case of Intel, even thousands--of
employees. This trend certainly reflects the fast-paced nature of
California's Silicon Valley, but also the American "hire and fire"
mentality in the union-free high-tech world. In Germany, unions would
go berserk over this kind of mass layoff. I am firmly convinced that
the established companies have used the stock market collapse and the
end of the boom as an opportunity to get rid of employees, as many of
the specialists and software engineers were completely overpaid.

<pic images/lambo.ps Due to the economic crisis, used Italian luxury
cars are available for purchase at a low price.>

In San Francisco, the wave of layoffs has suddenly resulted in
apartments becoming available for rent again. As recently as
December, there was absolutely nothing on the market. Walking around
our neighborhood, you would only occasionally see signs for
outrageously overpriced house sales. Now, we suddenly come across
signs saying "Apartment for Rent." Many people have to move away
because they have lost their jobs. The stocks that were part of their
salary are now worthless, making the exorbitantly expensive life in
San Francisco and its surroundings unaffordable. Unfortunately, the
slight easing of the housing market has not yet led to a decrease in
rental prices. Landlords probably still don't quite believe that the
golden age is over.

<pic images/forrent.ps There are apartments available for rent again
in Noe Valley.>

They are already complaining that they no longer earn anything from
rentals. However, I have no sympathy, as the high-price policy has
driven many artists and poorer families out of this city. Perhaps the
end of the myth "the internet can do everything and will make us all
millionaires" is a good thing for San Francisco. The city can breathe
again and return to its old friendliness, where there is once again
plenty of room for outsiders, families, older people, artists, and
not just for young, dynamic dot-commers with cell phones (oh dear,
this will earn me harsh criticism again). We only hope that we will
still be here to enjoy it, because for us, the changing job market
can have much more far-reaching consequences. After all, we are only
here because there weren't enough American software engineers to
handle the boom. And we are already wondering if soon the first
people will start shouting that foreigners are blocking jobs that
Americans could fill.

@Z: Changes in the Immigration Law

<em>Angelika</em> 
Recently, television reported that many laid-off H-1B holders are
unable to find a new employer willing to go through the visa
formalities again, and therefore, they actually have to leave the
country. One of them was almost in possession of a Green Card, was
laid off, and now has to throw his Green Card application in the
trash. That made us a bit uneasy, as we are also waiting for our
Green Card. We had felt secure not long ago because Clinton, just
before leaving office, gave us a new law with the promising name
"American Competitiveness in the Twenty-first Century Act of 2000."
Interestingly, the title does not mention "Green Card" or
"immigration" -- intentionally, because even in the immigration
country of America, there is not an entirely positive attitude
towards immigrants.

The law passed the conservative Congress in a rather secretive voice
vote--it was deliberately kept under wraps to avoid sparking a
national debate. The groundbreaking change is that the H-1B visa can
be extended beyond the maximum of six years--provided that the
employer has applied for the Green Card for the respective employee
one year before the H-1B visa expires. This may not sound so
spectacular to you, but for us, it is sensational. You surely
remember that we have repeatedly mentioned that our situation with
the Green Card is very tight, as our six years expire in October
2002, and it takes forever to go through the necessary three steps.
With the new law, Michael's H-1B visa can be extended again, and it
can be extended until our Green Card is approved. As mentioned, we
hope to benefit from these changes and that Bush does not reverse
everything.

@Z: Pink-Slip Parties" refers to social events where individuals who
have been laid off or are unemployed gather to network, share job
leads, and support each other in finding new employment
opportunities. The term "pink slip" is often used to refer to a
notice of termination from a job.

<pic images/ps.ps Pink-slip parties for unemployed dot-commers>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Californians are known for their boundless optimism and
inventiveness. In San Francisco and other cities in Silicon Valley,
there are now so-called "Pink-Slip Parties." These are parties that
serve no other purpose than informal job searching. The term "Pink
Slip" is used because a termination notice is typically given to an
employee on a "pink slip" (a pink form). At these gatherings, job
seekers and employers casually exchange information over a bottle of
beer or a glass of wine in a nightclub. The goal is to make
connections in a pleasant atmosphere and hopefully be invited to a
job interview. Not a bad idea!

@Z: Steuererklärung

<em>Angelika</em> 
On April 15th, we once again dutifully submitted our American tax
return. I had to struggle for weeks through a mountain of bizarre
forms, but I found it interesting to learn from the news that the
American President and Vice President disclose their tax returns.
Although they are not legally required to do so, it has been
customary since Nixon's tax scandal (Jimmy Carter set a shining
example in this regard). We learned that Bush earned $894,880 and
paid $240,342 in taxes, which corresponds to a tax rate of 26.9%.
Vice President Dick Cheney earned over 36 million dollars and paid
about 14.3 million dollars in taxes (39.6%). Bush's income mostly
consists of investment income and from the sale of his share in the
baseball team "Texas Rangers". Anyone who now complains about the
supposedly low tax rates for top earners is mistaken. The percentages
only refer to the federal tax and do not take into account local
taxes (state/city tax), which are still applicable in most states
(though not in Texas, where Bush has lived until now). And of course,
the percentage decreases the more deductions are made. For example,
Bush donated 16% of his income, which is deductible. Additionally,
profits from stock transactions are generally taxed at only 20%.
Cheney, on the other hand, paid the top federal tax rate because it
mostly involved regular income. And now I hand over to Michael.

@Z: Accounts/Checks/ATMs in the USA

<em>Michael</em> 
Thank you! Every now and then, something new comes up, and I think to
myself: That idea could have been mine. Recently, along with my bank
statement, I received a brochure that promised you could win money by
using the bank's ATM. I had this idea back in 1970! But I probably
need to elaborate a bit more for the German readers, so I'm making it
a main topic in my newsletter: Financial transactions in the USA!

<pic images/bofa.ps Great business idea: The combination of a bank
and a slot machine.>

The American word for "Geldautomat" is "ATM," pronounced "Ey-Tie-Em."
It stands for "Automatic Teller Machine," which roughly translates to
"Automatische Bankkassierermaschine" in German. These machines have
three advantages over the German ones, and I don't know if I could
live without them: First, you can choose your own PIN instead of
being assigned one that no one can remember. Second, there is a
button called "Quick Cash." You tell the bank once what amount you
usually withdraw from the ATM, and the machine remembers it. Then you
just go there, enter your PIN, press "Quick Cash," and the ATM
dispenses the same amount of money every time. By the way, ATMs here
only have twenties because no one withdraws huge amounts. Third, and
this is what I'm really getting at, you can not only withdraw money
from American ATMs but also deposit it.

<pic images/atm.ps An American ATM: Note that you can observe in the
rearview mirror who is sneaking around!>

Here in the USA, instead of using cash, people often pay with checks.
These are so-called "personal checks," which are not like Eurocheques
that guarantee the recipient will receive 400 marks. Instead,
personal checks do not guarantee anything. If someone writes a check
and doesn't have enough money in their account, the check "bounces."
The word "bounce" means something like "to be rejected." The doorman
of a bar or club is called a "bouncer." Or if the train is already
full with 24 bicycles and the conductor turns you away, you might
tell your fellow cyclists, "I got bounced off the train, man, this
sucks big time!" But I digress.

Checks are received from people you know to settle amounts of more
than twenty dollars, or for example, as a payment method for a
mail-in rebate -- you know, where you pay more at the register, send
in a coupon by mail, and get the money back after a few weeks.

You can then deposit it at the ATM and the amount is credited to your
account immediately. However, you can only access the money once the
transaction is finalized and the bank has collected the funds from
the check issuer, which can take up to a week. Of course, instead of
using the ATM, you can simply go to the counter. In the USA, you
typically don't pay any monthly fees for a checking account --
however, at our bank, it costs two dollars each time you have
something done by the staff instead of the machine. Depositing a
check at the ATM is quite simple: First, you need to "endorse" the
check. You write your name, account number, and signature on the back
of the check you received from someone. Then you go to the ATM, take
an envelope from a drawer there, put the check inside, and seal it.
Next, you insert your ATM card into the machine, enter your PIN, and
select the "Deposit" option from the menu. You enter the amount
written on the check (if it's an odd amount and you haven't memorized
it, you have to quickly tear open the envelope again!) and suddenly
the machine starts whirring and opens a flap you've never seen
before, eagerly sucking in the envelope you hold out. What happens
next, I can only guess: The next day, a bank employee opens the
envelope, checks if the amount was correct, and processes the
transaction.

<pic images/checkb.ps The back of a check, 'endorsed' for depositing
into one's own account.>

Exactly this check depositing (and you can also deposit cash this
way) is currently being rewarded by our bank with a chance to win.
Every time you deposit a check and luck is on your side, you can win
three times the deposited amount. Therefore, if you've ever wanted to
send me a check, send it now!

Now the question -- how do I write a check? In Figure 11, you can see
a sample. Let's assume I received an invoice from a company called
"Bullerbï¿½ Enterprises" for 10 dollars and 95 cents. I would agree
with it and want to send them a check. First, you write the date in
the "Date" field at the top right. Month, day, year, separated by
slashes or dashes, as is customary in America. In the image, you see
January 31, 2001, written as 01-31-01. By the way, in America, you
can postdate checks to prevent them from being cashed before the
entered date. In Germany, it doesn't matter; the check is always
cashed immediately. In America, the bank will not cash it before the
entered date.

Then, in the "Pay to the order of" field, you enter the name of the
company that will receive the check, in this case, "BullerbÃ¼
Enterprises." It is very important to write the name correctly, as
the check is only valid for this company or person--for security
reasons, since it could get lost in the mail. Similar to an "account
payee only" entry on a German check.

The amount goes in the field with the dollar sign in front, and in
America, the comma is a period, so it's 10.95 and not 10,95. Don't
take this lightly; the comma in America is used to separate
thousands, so 1,000 means one thousand, which in Europe would be
written as 1.000. And of course, the number one is written without a
stroke, but educated newsletter readers have known this for years.
The amount is then written out again in the field below, first the
whole number value, followed by the word "and" and the cent amount as
XX/100. In our case, it's 95 cents, so it reads "Ten and 95/100".
Quite unusual, but that's how it's done in America.

As with German checks, you should fill in the blank spaces in the
fields with lines so that no one can tamper with them. Then don't
forget to sign, and you're all set. In the "For" field, you can enter
a kind of purpose, such as writing the phone number when paying the
phone bill, or perhaps the name of the magazine and the subscription
duration for a magazine subscription, but this is all optional and
will most likely not be noticed by anyone. It's sometimes quite
useful just for your own bookkeeping.

<pic images/checka.ps A correctly issued check>

In the top right corner of the check, you will find the current check
number (2145), and at the bottom in the machine-readable line, there
are first 9 and then another 4 digits for the routing information (a
type of bank code), followed by two sets of five numbers for the
account number (12345-12345 in the illustration).

Then you stick a 34-cent stamp on an envelope (that's how much it
costs to send a letter within the USA that weighs no more than one
ounce, about 28.35 grams) and send off the money. On the received
invoice, you write "Paid 01/31/01 Check #2145" and file it in a
folder so you know that you've paid the bill in case a reminder comes
at some point, and also with which check. If the check gets lost in
the mail, you have it canceled at the bank and send a new one. This
happens in about 1% of cases. In your checkbook, you record that a
check for the amount of $10.95 was written and calculate how much is
left in the account. If you neglect to do this, you might end up
writing checks that aren't covered, and they "bounce," which is
uncool.

By the way, you might be wondering how to do this if you want to
ensure that the check is covered. Because a "Personal Check" does not
have guaranteed coverage, hardly anyone accepts it except for the
corner supermarket, which will also ask to see your ID. In such
places, it might happen that bounced checks are publicly displayed so
everyone can see what kind of fool doesn't have enough money in their
account. Letting a check bounce is considered pretty foolish, and if
it happens to someone once, they are forever discredited. So, for
example, if you're buying a used car, no one will accept a "Personal
Check." Once the purchase price is negotiated, the buyer goes to the
bank and obtains a so-called "Cashier's Check," which is guaranteed
to be honored. By the way, the check has a detachable side strip.
I've heard that if you tear it off, the "Cashier's Check" is no
longer valid! The bank requires real cash from the account for a
"Cashier's Check," otherwise, they won't issue it. The buyer then
takes it to the seller, and the purchase is finalized. Why use a
"Cashier's Check" instead of cash? Because of the traceability of the
transaction. With cash, no one can prove who received what and when.
However, when a check for a certain amount is cashed at a bank, it is
officially recorded because the bank logs it.

What if you buy a used car on Saturday? In the USA, the customer is,
of course, not the fool but the king -- and so some banks are
naturally open on Saturdays as well. By the way, it's quite funny
because that's when they have "Casual Day," meaning none of the
employees have to wear a suit with a tie or a costume. Angelika and I
went to a bank four years ago, when we were new in the country, on a
Saturday to open an account, and someone in jeans and a shirt
approached us in the lobby to ask about our needs. Confused, I
thought, "What does the janitor want from me?" but it was a bank
employee from the counter who was walking around the customer area!
It's funny what you have programmed into your brain.

Traveller's checks" that can be purchased at banks in Germany are, by
the way, the ideal means of payment for tourists. Amex traveller's
checks are accepted everywhere here in the USA, as long as they are
issued in dollars. Even the corner store or a restaurant will gladly
accept them without any fees to settle the bill, as long as you don't
try to pay a $5 bill with a $100 traveller's check. Otherwise,
tourists are best off using a credit card, as it offers the best
exchange rate and only about 1% in fees. With cash, the exchange rate
is approximately 5% worse.

It's also amusing what happens when you first arrive in the country
and receive your first checkbook, usually containing about 20
so-called beginner's checks. Absolutely no one accepts these, except
for the electricity company and the telephone company, to whom you
send a check by mail each month to pay your electricity and phone
bills. If you don't run into trouble with the first checks, the bank
will send you a proper checkbook after a few weeks. Since many stores
are rather dismissive towards people who have just received their
first checkbook, the bank will suggest starting the check numbers not
at 1, but at, for example, 1000. Over the years, you build up
"credit," or creditworthiness. At some point after a year, you can
apply for a credit card. Incidentally, it doesn't matter if you
already had a credit card from the same company (American Express,
Visa, MasterCard/Eurocard) in Germany; American credit companies
don't care about that at all. Most Americans come into contact with
credit very early, and similar to the "Schufa" in Germany, the
American "Credit Report" records who repaid their debts and who
didn't. Three private companies maintain "Credit Reports":
TransUnion, Experian, and Equifax. Because these are private
companies, you have to be extremely careful to ensure no errors slip
in. For example, if a bank reports just for fun that someone hasn't
paid their credit, you can file an objection against the entry (which
will then be noted in the entry), but the entry itself remains. I've
read that people have had to fight against these arbitrary or
erroneous entries for years before they were finally corrected. The
best stories, by the way, are in the very good book.

<pic images/costco.ps The membership card from Costco. On the other
side, there is a machine-readable barcode.>

Anyone who once fell out of line (even if it was just for not paying
the rent, missing an installment payment, or running out of money in
the account) has a very hard time correcting this mistake. When you
apply for a credit card, the card company checks the "Credit Report"
to see how creditworthy the potential new customer is. In the case of
a foreigner newly arrived from Germany, this inquiry results in a
blank sheet of paper, which leads to the rejection of the
application. The same applies, by the way, when renting an apartment:
the landlord checks the "Credit Report," and if there is something
negative or nothing at all, you don't get the apartment. At that
time, I had to plead with our landlord until I finally got the
apartment -- because my credit report was simply empty.

Having "credit" or creditworthiness is very important in America. If
someone pays amounts over 20 dollars in cash at the supermarket, they
are looked at strangely, as if the cashier is thinking: Doesn't
anyone give them a credit card or a check? What's wrong with them?
However, I still like to pay in cash, and I don't care what they
think of me. On the contrary, it drives me crazy when some fool pays
a 5-dollar bill with a credit card, and it takes forever--quite
common in America. Those with a good "credit report" receive about
two offers every day (by mail or phone call) for new credit cards.
This starts happening to foreigners who haven't had any negative
incidents after about two years, as they become known in the system.

Cash, on the other hand, provides anonymity--no one can trace who
bought what, where, and when. However, supermarkets are naturally
interested in collecting data on purchasing behavior and selling it
back to advertisers, who then bombard you with targeted, tailor-made
advertising. For example, a check might have your phone number on it,
which the supermarket can sell to people who call you at 8 PM trying
to sell you something. If the bank doesn't write the phone number on
the check, the cashier will ask for it. Of course, you can say you
don't want to provide it or just give a fake number like 123-4567,
but it's amusing. Supermarkets like "Safeway" issue customer cards,
and certain special offers are only available at a discounted price
if you present the customer card. And you can't even enter our
favorite supermarket, "Costco," without a membership card! This way,
the supermarket knows who bought what and has more data to feed into
the computer. I don't think this is bad at all because the
advertising that bombards us today is so annoying precisely because
it is so indiscriminately targeted. When the TV interrupts a program
for 5 minutes to show beer or detergent ads, it's a waste of time.
If, during the same time, computer stores advertised their products,
I might not have any objections.

@Z: The term "Gung Ho" is derived from Chinese and is often
translated to English as "work together" or "enthusiastic
cooperation." It is used to describe someone who is very eager,
enthusiastic, or zealous about a task or mission.

<em>Michael</em> 
I would be "gung ho", so to speak! Because we are already back to our
segment "Learn to Speak American with the Pros". "Gung ho"
(pronounced Gang ho) is an expression that originated from some US
troops stationed in Asia during World War II. It is derived from the
Mandarin Chinese 'gonghe' and means that you enthusiastically go
along with what everyone else is doing. "I am gung ho with ..." means
that you agree joyfully. No kidding, it's quite a common expression!

@Z: Marathon-Planung

<pic images/sfmara.ps Marathon in San Francisco>

<em>Michael</em> 
On July 8th, I will be participating in the San Francisco Marathon.
Yes, you heard correctly: the speedy newsletter reporter will lace up
his running shoes and race 42.195 km across San Francisco with a few
thousand other enthusiasts. While I am in pretty good shape, a
special training regimen is necessary for such an ordeal: since March
8th, I have been training four times a week following a proven
special program. I started with 5-kilometer runs and increase the
distance weekly so that the muscles can build up gradually and there
is no risk of injury. By the way, the longest training run is one
week before the San Francisco Marathon and is 29 kilometers long. So,
the full 42 kilometers are only run on the marathon day itself, and
then probably not at all for a week afterward.

In the San Francisco Marathon, you run across the city past many
landmarks. If you've been to San Francisco before, you'll recognize
parts of the route: You start in Golden Gate Park, run north over the
Presidio to the Golden Gate Bridge, then along Fisherman's Wharf down
the Embarcadero by the Bay, into the tech district "SoMa," then
briefly through the Mexican neighborhood "Mission," almost past our
home in "Noe," up Laguna Street to Market and all the way back up to
Golden Gate Park. Across the park to the ocean, where the Pacific
waves crash onto the beach, then along the promenade down to Lake
Merced, turn around and run the same road back up to Golden Gate Park
-- and to the finish line. So it definitely won't be boring, I just
have to keep going. And it's quite simple: You have to drink enough
water and just not stop running!

The History of the Marathon: Around 490 BC, the Greeks drove back the
advancing Darius (King of Persia) and his troops--a successful battle
approximately 40 kilometers from Athens, in an area called
"Marathon." Once the battle was won, a runner set off to bring the
joyful news to the Athenians in Athens. He ran the entire 40
kilometers to the city, but overexerted himself and could only shout
"Victory!" before collapsing dead.

At the first Olympic Games in Athens in 1896, the marathon was
immediately included as a discipline because it was considered almost
superhuman to cover this distance by running. In 1912, at the Olympic
Games in Sweden, the distance was adjusted to the now standard 42.195
kilometers, actually by chance, because the runners were supposed to
run exactly to the throne of the King of Sweden.

The problem with a marathon is not the 42 kilometers; it's only the
last ten that are hell on earth. Here's why: The muscles of the body
derive their energy from adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which the body
produces during an easy long-distance run from about 50%
carbohydrates and 50% fats. After about 30 to 35 kilometers, all the
carbohydrates are depleted, and the body begins to generate energy
from pure fat. This is said to be quite painful and requires a lot of
willpower to break through this barrier. In American terms, this is
called "hitting the wall." You have to run slower and drag your
leaden body laboriously to the finish. If you regularly consume
carbohydrates during the run in the form of drinks like Gatorade, you
can delay this barrier, and if done skillfully, even until the end of
the marathon. I have read several books on the subject and am
confident that I can do it. In the July newsletter, I will surely
report on it at length and boast like ten naked savages, don't worry.

@Z: Wine of the Month

<pic images/krugs.ps Charles Krug, Napa Valley Cabernet Sauvignon,
1998>

<em>Michael</em> 
And here again is the popular section:
Now-let's-drink-another-bottle-of-wine! This time, a delicate little
wine that was on the shelf for 13 dollars at the giant supermarket
Costco and apparently only caught the eye of the speedy newsletter
reporter. When you stick your nose in the glass, something wafts
towards you that the American wine connoisseur would describe as
'liquorish', almost a brandy-like note. Also not unlike the scent of
Mon Cheri. Very delicious. On the palate, nicely balanced, fine,
unobtrusive tannins, a wonderfully heavy red wine that is best suited
for snuggling into a heavy Italian leather armchair in the evening
and reading an excellent Perl book. Aaah ....

@Z: Top Product: The TiVo Box

<pic images/tivobox.ps Cable box, video recorder, and TiVo box>

<em>Michael</em> 
And here is the newsletter's top product: the TiVo box. In Germany,
you also have the problem that only crap is on TV, which is
constantly interrupted by commercials. In America, it's even worse,
and that's why the company TiVo came up with a box that contains a
small computer that continuously records the TV program onto a hard
drive while you watch.

If you miss a sentence in a TV show because you were munching on
potato chips too loudly, you can quickly press the TiVo remote and
jump back in time--up to half an hour. However, you will then be
watching the program on a delay: you are watching the past while the
TiVo box continues to record the present. A clever way to skip the
frequently inserted commercials is, of course, to let TiVo record the
show, watch it with a slight delay, and fast-forward through the
commercial breaks.

The first ones are already shouting: Hahaha, my VCR can do that too!
To which your uncle from America says: Not so fast, kids. The TiVo
box can record one show while playing another one thatâs already
saved. Or even play the beginning of a recorded show while itâs
still not finished! So if you come home late and your favorite TV
show has already started, you donât have to freak out and run to
the gun cabinet (see the second-to-last newsletter), you just let the
TiVo box play the beginning of the show while it continues to record
the end. This way, you watch the show just slightly delayed! During
commercial breaks, you can fast forward to catch up a few minutes
until youâre back in the present!

This time delay feature is also used when you're watching something
live on TV but need to quickly run to the phone because someone is
calling during prime time. You simply press the "Pause" button, and
the TiVo box continues recording the show. When you later press the
"Play" button, the TiVo box resumes playback from the interruption
point while still recording the present.

Furthermore, the box also knows the entire TV schedule by heart
because it secretly calls the TiVo headquarters at night and
downloads the current day's schedule. Thanks to smart software, you
don't have to tell the TiVo box, "Switch to channel 2 on Tuesday at
7:00 PM and record for half an hour." Instead, you just tell it the
name of the show. For example, if I say "Seinfeld," it asks me if I
only want the next episode that's airing somewhere soon or perhaps
even a so-called "Season Pass," which is like a "season ticket" that
records every "Seinfeld" episode that airs at any time on the 60 or
so channels we can receive. The box can store 30 hours of television,
and you don't have to deal with video tapes, as the computer in the
box saves it on its hard drive.

<pic images/tivodsp.ps The TiVo has been diligently recording and
offers a personalized television program.>

You come home in the evening, turn on the TV, and are offered a menu
with shows that were recorded during the previous night and the past
day. In my case, there's a list with "Seinfeld," "The Simpsons," the
6 o'clock news, and various movies that aired on the pay-TV channel
HBO (similar to Premiere in Germany).

The translation to English is:

"You simply record everything, better too much than too little (you
can always delete it later) -- even news broadcasts. Because even
that isn't enough to fill the entire TiVo storage, the box tries to
record shows that are similar to the ones you have selected, if there
is still space. On the remote control of the TiVo box, there are two
buttons: thumbs down and thumbs up. With these, you can give the box
bonus or penalty points, depending on how much you like the selected
shows. The box is constantly learning and getting better.

<pic images/tivodsp2.ps The TiVo knows the TV schedule and can even
tell you what the current episode is about at the push of a button.
The bar at the bottom shows how much of the recorded program has
already been played. You can, of course, click it away.>

Moreover, he shares these decisions during the nightly phone calls to
the TiVo headquarters, which supposedly anonymizes this information
and resells it to advertisers--a video recorder and Allensbach
Institute in one. However, you can call them and request that your
data not be used, and this will be promptly taken care of. I really
like the box, and it has completely changed my TV habits because I no
longer wait for something to air on TV. Instead, I have so much
recorded that if I have time to watch TV, I can immediately turn it
on and "watch away" everything the box has recorded that interests
me. Angelika has also become fond of the box and no longer rushes to
the TV when a show is on. Thanks to my intensive TiVo courses, she
watches TV when she has time! Additionally, I'm always the one who
munches on potato chips the loudest and therefore often misses a
dialogue. No problem anymore. Thank you, TiVo! A true top product for
newsletters!

Or in American: "The best thing since sliced bread." The best thing
since the invention of sliced bread. This is a common expression used
to suggest that something is considered a great invention. In
America, you can have a freshly bought loaf of bread sliced into
perfectly even slices by a machine in bakeries and supermarkets.
Indeed, a great invention that Germans will be chewing over for a
long time. By the way, Angelika often says "Das sind ja wieder
Bemmen!" when I cut bread into extra-thick slices -- can someone
explain the etymological origin of this apparently northern German
word to me? Until next time!

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

