San Francisco, 09-20-2001

@Z: Terror Attacks

<pic images/rusp8.ps Extrablatt>

Dear newsletter friends!
Regarding the attacks on New York and Washington, you have already
learned about them from the media. Many of you have asked us how the
whole situation is being experienced in America. Therefore, Angelika
has gathered some thoughts:

<em>Angelika</em> 
San Francisco on September 11, 2001: Everything can change in
minutes. This wisdom has been heard many times before. Then suddenly
it comes true. Just moments ago, lying deep in slumber in bed. It was
supposed to be a completely normal day: darkroom, laundromat,
errands ... but early in the morning, we are surprised by a "Breaking
News" from New York.

TODO

Television images like something out of a science fiction film. A
commercial airliner crashes directly into one of the towers of the
World Trade Center. At first, I think: a terrible accident. But
minutes later: a second plane appears out of nowhere and explosively
hits the second tower of the World Trade Center. Black clouds of
smoke everywhere. Utterly desperate people are jumping to their
deaths from the upper floors to escape the spreading fire. The news
is overwhelming. The Pentagon, the American Department of Defense, is
also hit by a crashing commercial airliner.

Only terrorists are being considered; they hijacked American
commercial airplanes filled with passengers from the airlines
American and United Airlines and used the planes in the most
perfidious way as bombs. The American aviation security authority has
stopped air traffic across the entire USA and has closed all airports
until further notice. There is no escape. Even if we wanted to, we
could not leave the country at the moment.

Then the unimaginable happens. The two towers of the World Trade
Center collapse one after the other, burying thousands of victims
under tons of steel. Memories of one's own visit to the World Trade
Center flicker. Debris is visible everywhere. A huge gray layer of
dust, making everything appear apocalyptic, settles over the disaster
site. People in shock wander through the streets of New York's
Downtown Manhattan. But the horror does not end. Another hijacked
United Airlines plane on its way from Newark to San Francisco crashes
near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It is suspected that it was targeting
"Camp David," the presidential retreat, but for reasons still
unclear, it missed its target.

In other major American cities, there is growing concern that further
terrorist attacks may follow. In San Francisco, City Hall is
initially evacuated for security reasons. Then, kindergartens and
schools, as well as universities, libraries, and various other city
and state facilities, are closed. Prominent buildings like the "Bank
of America skyscraper" and the Transamerica Pyramid lock their doors.
Pedestrians and cyclists are banned from the Golden Gate Bridge.
Patrol boats guard the Bay Bridge and Golden Gate Bridge from the
water. Ships and freighters heading to the Port of Oakland receive
escorts. Access to Pier 39 and the former prison island "Alcatraz,"
two major tourist attractions in San Francisco, is also blocked.
Cultural and sporting events are canceled. Even some large shopping
centers close. Our neighbor, who works in downtown San Francisco,
reports that the city center appears deserted. Everyone just wants to
go home.

<pic images/rusp1.ps Someone has tied candles with ribbons in the colors of the American flag to a fence post.>

In the afternoon, the first local newspapers with special editions
appear. In our neighborhood, "Noe Valley," people are sitting in the
sun in front of cafes as usual, but there is a strange silence. It's
as if everything is wrapped in cotton wool. There is only one topic
of conversation. I head to our newspaper shop. The owner is
Palestinian. I worry about him, as there are already fears of
increased hostility towards Palestinians living in America in the
first hours after the terrorist attacks. This happened after the
bombing in Oklahoma City. The newspaper shop is bustling. I exchange
a few words with the owner, buy a newspaper, and head back home.
Although the television helplessly shows the same images over and
over again and the same experts speak on every channel, everyone is
glued to the screen. Speculations about those responsible for the
attacks are circulating. In the evening, the American president and
many journalists speak all too carelessly of "war," "war zone," "the
first war of the 21st century," "striking back with full force." We
fear the worst...

@Z: San Francisco, September 18, 2001

Even a week after the terrorist attacks, America remains in a state
of shock. Unfortunately, the voices calling for revenge, retribution,
and the harshest military action as an appropriate response to
terrorist violence are growing louder. San Francisco is trying to
return to normalcy. As early as last Wednesday, all city and state
buildings reopened their doors. Schools and universities were only
closed for one day. Baseball games are being played again, concerts
are taking place, and people are going to work. The highways are as
congested as ever during rush hour. However, a closer look reveals
that the impact of the catastrophe runs deep. Although New York and
Washington are miles away, the tragedy affects many in San Francisco
and the surrounding area quite directly. A participant in one of my
photography courses lost two of his friends who worked in the World
Trade Center. Some of Michael's colleagues are still stuck in Dulles,
the AOL headquarters. They were on a business trip to the East Coast
last Tuesday and are now patiently waiting for American air traffic
to return to normal.

Even in the liberal stronghold of San Francisco, you can see American
flags waving everywhere. They meet us at every turn: in store
windows, on residential buildings, and on car antennas.

<pic images/rusp4.ps Many people in San Francisco hang flags on their houses.>

Many people attach red, white, and blue ribbons to their sweaters or
jackets. Americans generally approach their national flag with a
sense of ease and lack of criticism. Even in normal times, public
buildings are often draped in the Stars and Stripes, and the flag can
be found in many front yards, not just on holidays. However, this
defiantly displayed nationalism is not comfortable for everyone. For
example, I am strongly reminded of the dark times in Germany when
flags were waved aggressively. America now wants to present a united
front, and being a patriot is the order of the day. A real estate
agent in our neighborhood, who leans Republican (referring to the
American party) and is not shy about publicly sharing his beliefs, is
urging residents to display the flag with signs in his shop window.

<pic images/rusp6.ps The Republican real estate agent is calling for people to show their colors in his shop window.>

Even in San Francisco, which is considered tolerant, there is an
increase in verbal and physical assaults on Muslim, Palestinian, or
Arab fellow citizens (often referred to here as "Arab American"). In
the Mission District (a neighborhood in San Francisco), for example,
an unknown person threw a blood-filled bag at the entrance of an
Islamic facility. Just as frequently as we see the American flag, we
now encounter yellow posters in our neighborhood, hanging in shop
windows and private residences, declaring the neighborhood a
"hate-free zone.

<pic images/rusp5.ps A poster declares a "hate-free zone".>

Although it is true that, according to surveys, about 90% of the
American population considers military retaliation for the terrorist
attacks to be justified, we know many Americans here who do not
belong to these 90% and are extremely concerned about how the USA
will respond. Congresswoman Barbara Lee (Democratic Party) is, for
me, also part of this other America that is focused on prudence. She
was the only representative to vote against military retaliation (420
to 1 vote). She expressed concern that a hasty military response
could have unforeseeable consequences and easily spiral out of
control. Incidentally, Barbara Lee represents the cities of Berkeley
and Oakland; both are located on the opposite side of the bay from
San Francisco.

Unfortunately, President Bush often lacks this prudence. This can be
seen, above all, in his choice of words in recent days. For example,
he spoke of "smoking out the terrorists from their holes" or "wanting
Osama bin Laden dead or alive." While these statements resonate with
a large part of the American population, they cause significant
damage on a diplomatic level.

<pic images/rusp2.ps The Third World shop points out that revenge alone does not bring relief from pain.>

Nervousness is spreading alongside grief in San Francisco, as no one
knows what else is to come. The absence of tourists and empty
restaurants also speak volumes. We are still far from a normal
everyday life.

@Z: San Francisco, October 7, 2001

What everyone here had long feared happened today: The first American
bombs fell on Afghan soil. The media informed us that America is now
at war. The television images are reminiscent of the Gulf War era:
greenish images interspersed with flashes of light. In San Francisco
and other cities in the Bay Area, spontaneous peace demonstrations
formed. However, opinions are divided. Many who appear in front of
the cameras believe that the military actions were long overdue.
Others are concerned about what the coming weeks and months will
bring. There is widespread concern that countless civilians will once
again die and suffer. The fear of new terrorist attacks in response
to the falling bombs is palpable. The heightened security level for
airports and government and city buildings is in effect once again.

<pic images/rusp7.ps A small flag on the car antenna>

San Francisco has just recently started to return to normalcy,
especially in the past week. Restaurants are filling up again, and we
spotted more tourists in the city. Halloween decorations (Halloween
is on October 31st and is a carnival-like event) have appeared in
stores, slightly replacing the sea of flags that still accompanies us
at every turn. Last Monday, pedestrians and cyclists were finally
allowed back on the Golden Gate Bridge, which we all love so much.
Heightened security measures had restricted bridge access to only
drivers for almost three weeks. As a result, a small line even formed
in front of the barriers last Monday, and excitement spread as the
gates opened. The appearance of normalcy was, of course, deceptive.
This can be seen in the Golden Gate Bridge story. Even though cycling
and strolling over the city's red landmark is allowed again, it is
only permitted from 7 AM to 7 PM, until nightfall. Previously, one
could also enjoy the fantastic view from the bridge of the city at
night.

Since the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, we have
encountered quite a few things that deviate from the norm, including
various quirky ones: The sale of patriotic Halloween costumes has
skyrocketed this year. The postal service is coming out with a new
34-cent stamp featuring the American flag and stating "United we
stand." In tattoo shops, there is also a high demand for the American
flag. M&Ms (comparable to Smarties) are soon to be available in
special packaging in the colors of the American flag (red, white,
blue). However, we have not yet been able to find them in
supermarkets.

<pic images/motel.ps Even motels express their solidarity.>

The sale of weapons is booming, and there has been a real rush to buy
gas masks. The fear that terrorists might use poison gas runs deep
and is being fueled by Justice Minister Ashcroft, who seemingly will
use any means necessary to push through his new anti-terrorism laws.
However, up to now, we personally haven't known anyone who sits at
home armed with a gas mask. The saleswoman at the cheese shop around
the corner confessed to me when I was shopping there on Friday that
her husband insisted they both get a gas mask. Many people also
bought the antibiotic "Cipro," which is supposed to help against
anthrax, as a preventive measure--at least that's what the media
reported.

Otherwise, we find donation appeals at every supermarket or drugstore
checkout. You can simply hand the money to the cashier, and the
supermarket will forward it, usually to the American Red Cross, which
has set up a relief fund for the victims of the attacks. Donations Ã 
la USA - the country has always been pragmatic.

We are somewhat confused, however, as we observe how suddenly
fundamental American principles are being overridden. There was an
official reprimand from the White House Press Secretary, Ari
Fleischer, directed at public figures such as journalists and
political talk show hosts who expressed criticism of the White
House's actions. Fleischer warned that everyone should be more
careful about what they say ("...the reminder is to all Americans
that they need to watch what they say..."). And this in a country
where freedom of speech is usually held above all else.

The critical voices are scarce anyway, which can also be seen in the
fact that Bush suddenly seems to have the whole country behind him
and is being hailed by many as the greatest president of all. The
election debacle and the first months of his term are currently being
conveniently overlooked even by his sharpest critics. Even David
Letterman, who is the American counterpart to Harald Schmidt and
regularly mocked Bush and Giuliani, the mayor of New York, on his
"Late Show," has transformed into a full-blooded American patriot.
The subsidies for the struggling airline industry and other sectors
affected by the terrorist attacks can also be described as
un-American, because otherwise the principle here is: the market
rules the world.

<pic images/rusp3.ps A small "memorial" on the sidewalk to commemorate the victims of the attack.>

We view the debate regarding the legislative changes to combat
terrorism with suspicion. Particularly, Justice Minister Ashcroft's
proposal that legal immigrants can be detained indefinitely without
any evidence during a national emergency--such as the one currently
declared--if they pose any threat to the American state, simply
suspends the rules of a constitutional state. Thankfully, other
leading politicians see it the same way, and in the mediation
committee, the clause "indefinite time" has now been reduced to 7
days.

This debate and the comparison frequently heard in the first days,
that the attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon is similar
to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in World War II, revived a
silenced chapter of American history for many Americans of Japanese
descent. After the Pearl Harbor attack, the American government
interned all Japanese living on the West Coast for years, as they
allegedly posed a threat to the USA. Incidentally, many of the
interned individuals were American citizens.

Due to the incidents, immigration laws and visa regulations will
likely be tightened. Because even though the USA always presents
itself as a country of immigration, xenophobic voices become
particularly loud in times like these. Unfortunately, this seems to
be the case all over the world.

Angelika
