San Francisco, 11-21-2001

Dear newsletter friends!

It's that time again -- Newsletter time! Today with the following
topics: "Halloween", "Another Holiday: Thanksgiving", "The State of
the Nation", "America After the Attack", "From the Good Old Days in
Silicon Valley", "Home to Germany?", "Album of the Month" and "The
Most Useless Sports Items in the World". Enjoy reading!

TODO

@Z: Halloween

<pic images/castro1.ps Halloween: Noble Ladies at the Castro
Carnival>

<em>Angelika</em> 
We have been following with surprise how the American festival
"Halloween" is enjoying growing popularity in Germany. According to
rumors, on October 31st in Germany, there were not only Halloween
parties but also children going through neighborhoods trying to
collect sweets. Until now, I actually thought that there were enough
holidays in Germany. I know that the festival dates back to the
Celtic Druids, who celebrated the god of darkness on the night of
October 31st to November 1st more than 2000 years ago, and that
Christians later transformed the pagan custom into All Saints' Day.
The festival finally came to America with Irish and English
immigrants in the mid-19th century.

Germany does not rely on Celtic traditions -- the whole thing seems
more like "looking towards America" and commerce to me. Halloween
costumes and all sorts of spooky masks seem to sell well in Germany
too. What scares me the most, however, is the thought that we might
one day live in Germany again and won't have to adjust much. How
boring life is when you encounter the same thing everywhere! The big
cities of this world already give a taste of that. Travelers
encounter McDonald's and Kentucky Fried Chicken everywhere.
Department stores in London, Paris, Berlin, Sydney, New York, and
Hong Kong offer Levis, Calvin Klein, Esprit, Benetton, and the like.
I don't even want there to be a GAP (an American clothing chain based
in San Francisco) in Munich, or for the American coffeehouse chain
"Starbucks" to make its way into Germany. Admittedly, I often miss
various things here, like Bahlsen's peanut flips, but there's nothing
more delightful for me than indulging in a bag during a visit to
Germany or joyfully receiving a "care package" from Germany
containing treats we can't get here. Feel free to think I'm a bit
crazy. To anyone who doesn't believe in the horror of uniformity, I
recommend a tour through the American suburbs. There, you mostly find
shopping centers with the same stores. Everything is completely
interchangeable, whether you're in California, Idaho, or anywhere
else in the USA.

<pic images/treat.ps The shop owner nervously hands out sweets so
that the child doesn't play a trick on him!>

Once again back to "Halloween": The term is composed of the three
words "All Hallows Eve," which means "the night before All Saints'
Day." Here in the USA, children dress up in costumes and roam the
streets, going from door to door or even from store to store, and
threaten "trick or treat" -- loosely translated: Either you hand over
the candy, or we'll play a trick on you. A popular activity around
Halloween is for American families to go to so-called "Pumpkin
Patches" (pumpkin farms) and pick out pumpkins, which are then
hollowed out and carved with funny or spooky faces. On Halloween, a
candle is placed inside the hollowed-out pumpkin, making the face
glow.

<pic images/patch.ps A pumpkin farm in the countryside>

This year, even "Halloween" was overshadowed by the terrorist attacks
in September. Many security experts expressed concerns about the
crowds at the various Halloween parties that took place on the
streets of several cities on October 31st. As a result, many cities
canceled their events. However, San Francisco was not deterred. For
years, there has been a street party in the Castro, San Francisco's
gay district, during Halloween. There, you can see not only the most
amazing costumes, but the atmosphere is also truly lively. No one
wanted to miss out on the fun. By the way, the party in the Castro
district is unofficial. The city of San Francisco has been trying for
some time to move the party entirely to the Civic Center (where San
Francisco's City Hall is located) because Castro Street is relatively
narrow and can hardly accommodate the large crowds--there simply
isn't enough space. So now the official party always takes place at
the Civic Center, which no one seems to care about, and everyone goes
to celebrate in the Castro.

<pic images/castro2.ps It's getting busy in front of Harvey's in the
Castro.>

The safety of Halloween is generally a constant topic in America,
especially concerning the children who go from door to door. Several
years ago, a few completely deranged individuals hid razor blades in
oranges that they gave to children at the door, so now only
pre-packaged candies are distributed. Stores sell large packs before
Halloween, where all the candies are individually wrapped. Many
families who live in less safe neighborhoods (meaning: rough areas
with burning trash cans -- Michael) drive with their children to
safer areas and let them go door to door there. With the children in
the Tenderloin (where I still volunteer twice a week), we always take
the same route, as the Tenderloin is known to be one of the somewhat
less safe areas in San Francisco. But even the candies that the
business owners we know give to the children cannot be eaten
immediately, as there is a rule that parents must first inspect the
candies for safety reasons when they pick up their children. And it's
not just about potential allergies. It's all very sad.

<pic images/castro3.ps The translation of "BlutrÃ¼nstige Verkleidung"
to English is "bloodthirsty disguise.>

@Z: Another holiday: Thanksgiving

<em>Angelika</em> 
And since I'm already on the topic of holidays, I'll also explain
what "Thanksgiving" is all about. Thanksgiving takes place in the USA
on the fourth Thursday in November. Although many countries have
"harvest festivals" on their calendars, the American one has a
special significance. The Pilgrims, who came from England to America
across the great ocean in 1620, had an indescribably hard first year
in the New World. The local Native Americans then showed them how to
cultivate corn and other grains, resulting in an exceptionally
bountiful harvest the following year. The recipe for popcorn is also
said to have originated from the Native Americans. In gratitude, the
Pilgrims held a feast for the Native Americans. Today, "Thanksgiving"
is one of the most important holidays in America. Families come
together, which has led to the time around Thanksgiving being the
peak travel season in the USA: roads are congested, flights are fully
booked. Additionally, the majority of workers have not only
Thanksgiving off but also the following Friday, which, when combined
with the weekend, gives most people four days off. A real luxury in
America!

Traditionally, a roast turkey with cranberry sauce is, of course,
served at Thanksgiving. Pumpkin pie and sweet potatoes are also very
popular. The holiday also involves taking a moment to reflect on what
one is grateful for in life. Before indulging in the feast, everyone
at the table takes turns saying what fills them with gratitude: "I am
thankful for ...".

After the meal, people sit in front of the TV and watch "football." I
haven't yet figured out why. One nice thing about Thanksgiving is
that no gifts need to be bought and no cards need to be written.
Additionally, because of its timing in November, the Christmas
shopping season (along with Christmas decorations) in the USA starts
significantly later, specifically on the Friday after Thanksgiving,
since hardly anyone works that day, leaving time for shopping.
However, Thanksgiving is not without controversy, especially among
more liberal circles. Many people are initially bothered by the fact
that the active role of the Native Americans (referred to here as
"Native Americans") in the first Thanksgiving celebration is not
emphasized enough. And then, of course, there is the issue of the
extermination of the Native Americans, a topic that is often swept
under the rug in America.

In general, the story with holidays that one did not grow up with is
an interesting phenomenon. Thanksgiving means very little to me. It's
nothing more than a nice meal. Perhaps this also explains why many
foreigners far from home rely more on their familiar customs and
traditions than in their country of origin. Regardless of
Thanksgiving, we are definitely looking forward to the days off!

<pic images/castro4.ps These figures certainly do not celebrate
Thanksgiving.>

@Z: On the State of the Nation

<em>Angelika</em> 
And now a few words from me on the state of the nation: The Senate
has now ratified the anti-terrorism laws here (I briefly mentioned it
in my last newsletter). The package of laws has the resounding name
"Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools
Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism," abbreviated as U.S.A.
P.A.T.R.I.O.T., so you immediately know where the wind is blowing
from.

The law significantly restricts many civil rights. And although civil
rights are considered sacred in America and "too much" government is
deeply suspicious to every American, there were hardly any critical
voices heard, neither from politicians nor from the general public.
In Congress, only 66 representatives voted against the law, with 356
voting in favor. In the Senate, there was only one opposing vote
against 98 supporters.

The surveillance of phones and the snooping into private emails is no
longer a problem and is almost entirely beyond the control of the
courts. No search warrant is required for house searches, and the
searches can even take place in the absence of the residents. Bank
and medical confidentiality practically no longer exist, or as
Senator Feingold aptly noted: If you are merely sitting on a plane
with a terrorism suspect, your own medical, bank, or business records
can be scrutinized. The CIA, the American foreign intelligence
service, is now also spying domestically. At the slightest suspicion
that foreigners might be involved in terrorist activities, it is
permitted to detain them for seven days without any evidence. This
new regulation also includes holders of the American Green Card.
Under certain circumstances, these seven days can even be extended to
six months. The civil rights organization ACLU ("American Civil
Liberties Union") considers it particularly dangerous how the new law
defines terrorist organizations on domestic soil. The definitions are
so broad and general that cynical voices claim even Greenpeace falls
into this category. The anti-terror law contains a single bright
spot: the extensive surveillance of phones and computers is initially
valid for only four years.

A country that prides itself on its democracy undermines it
significantly with such laws. President Bush's proposal to try
terrorists before a military court also contradicts the principles of
a democratic constitutional state. Military courts can take place
away from the public eye, and the verdict does not need to be
unanimous--a two-thirds majority is sufficient. The right to freely
choose one's own lawyer and the possibilities for appeal are limited.
It is also incomprehensible that the USA is vehemently opposed to an
international court. This would provide the opportunity to prosecute
terrorists in the future. The Bush administration justifies its
opposition by arguing that there is a risk that American citizens
would also have to answer before this court. Hmmm...

Recently, the topic of torture is being discussed again in America.
According to a CNN survey, 45% of Americans support the use of
torture as a means of pressure to obtain information about terrorism.
It's truly unbelievable. We are living in crazy times. Almost every
day, we hear a new anthrax story. Just today, a 94-year-old woman in
Connecticut died of inhalation anthrax. However, the FBI is still in
the dark. That's why, at the beginning of November, they released a
profile of the possible perpetrator. I used to only see things like
this in Hollywood movies: The perpetrator is most likely male. He is
a loner, both at home and at work. He finds it difficult to form
relationships. He is familiar with the Trenton area (some of the
anthrax-infected letters were sorted in Trenton post offices). He has
a scientific background or a strong interest in science. He is
knowledgeable in laboratory work. In fact, he prefers test tubes to
people. Perhaps he is taking antibiotics... whether that will help in
the search is unknown.

@Z: America After the Attack

<em>Michael</em> 
Due to the tightened security regulations in air travel, the
"SÃ¼ddeutsche Zeitung," whose Friday edition we have subscribed to,
unfortunately no longer arrives on time. As we recently learned from
a distributor's note, the printed material now has to spend 24 hours
in a compression chamber along with other air freight to ensure that
the sharply written articles, with their concentrated journalistic
impact, do not blow up an airplane. Oh man! Hopefully, the ladies and
gentlemen at the FAA or whoever issues these ridiculous regulations
will attend a proper security training session to distinguish between
blind activism and sensible security measures. An excellent article
by a security guru in the field of computing, Bruce Schneier, can be
found...
<LINK>https://www.schneier.com/crypto-gram/archives/2001/0930.html|In
his blog | Bruce Schneier: Crypto-Gram September 30, 2001</LINK>
.

<pic images/glp.ps The SÃ¼ddeutsche has to go into the compression
chamber before it comes to us.>

The BART, the subway in San Francisco, is not far behind and closes
all station restrooms for security reasons. Hmm, that will surely
deter the terrorists. One gets the impression that many are taking
advantage of the situation to abolish inconvenient things (like
station restrooms) or to push through previously blocked intrusions
into privacy under the guise of "We need more security." At the
airport, soldiers in camouflage uniforms and with long rifles are
standing around. Well, at least they are safer than the Uzis
(submachine guns) with which the German police made airports insecure
in the early 70s at the height of the terrorism scene.

<pic images/bart.ps The subway in San Francisco is closing the
station restrooms.>

Since everyone is now afraid of receiving mail with anthrax spores,
the American postal service has issued a flyer with instructions on
how to inspect incoming mail. Is the mail from someone you don't
know? Is it over-posted? Is there no return address? Then you should
not open the mail, not shake it, not sniff it, but forward it to the
appropriate authorities.

<pic images/post.ps The post office provides advice on what letters
containing anthrax spores might look like.>

Here is the latest news from Silicon Valley.

@Z: From the good old days in Silicon Valley

<em>Michael</em> 
After the legendary era of Silicon Valley is slowly coming to an end,
I need to quickly write a sentimental report about what a smart life
we software developers had when things were still in full swing.

In the meantime, things are only going downhill. Companies are laying
off people in large numbers, the job market is once again heavily
employer-biased, and it's actually difficult to get a good position
again. Gone are the days when people were desperately sought after,
and anyone who could spell "Java" was picked up off the street,
driven to the company in a limousine, and immediately hired. Now it's
more like the early '90s again, when up to 900 applications would
come in for a newspaper ad. Ah yes, those were the days!

<pic images/entrance.ps At the entrance of Netscape/AOL>

At the entrance to the Netscape campus, which consists of around 10
buildings, not only the Netscape "N" but also the AOL logo has been
displayed since AOL acquired Netscape. By the way, Netscape only
rented the buildings and recently gave up some of them. About a year
ago, at the height of the dot-com bubble, the company Veritas agreed
to rent them for $600 million for 10 years. Now, of course, the
entire market has collapsed, and negotiations with the landlord have
been reopened. It was agreed that Veritas could now purchase the
buildings for $280 million. Imagine that, the buildings are changing
hands for half of the originally negotiated rental price! Even the
fountain with the Netscape logo, in front of which Netscape founder
Marc Andreessen liked to pose for newspapers, was sold off: it is now
adorned with the logo of the company "Verisign.

<pic images/fountain.ps The Netscape fountain now belongs to the
company Verisign.>

But enough of the gloomy predictions. Let your Silicon Valley
maverick ramble on before everything finally collapses:

Between the beige buildings, there are park benches and fountains so
that people can relax. The young people! The new boss of Netscape is
somehow 26 years old. And I always feel ancient when I look at my
colleagues who have just graduated from university. Oh well, the
youth still has a lot to learn!

<pic images/arbeit.ps Two colleagues are pondering over something.>

The dress code is, of course, California casual. I don't think I've
seen anyone wearing a tie in four years. In the summer, shorts and
T-shirts are the norm, and baseball caps are also popular. Recently,
I've been getting terrible blisters from wearing leather shoes, as
I've only worn sneakers or Birkenstocks for the past five years. At
home in the closet, there's a jacket, a shirt, a tie, and a "nice"
pair of pants sealed in a plastic cover--just in case the worst-case
scenario happens and I have to present myself somewhere. Until then,
the plastic stays on.

<pic images/cube.ps The entrance to my cubicle. I am the King of
Bavaria.>

<pic images/foosball.ps A relaxing foosball game>

There is also pool billiards, foosball machines, a mini-golf course,
an outdoor beach volleyball court, basketball courts, a roller hockey
rink, and a putting green for golfers. A dedicated fitness center
with treadmills, weight machines, various modern equipment, and
showers has also been built. The underlying idea, of course, is that
almost any price is justified to keep people at the company as long
as possible. Recently, I read an article stating that every manager
of software developers must ask themselves what they are doing wrong
if people are already going home at 6 p.m.
<LINK>http://philip.greenspun.com/ancient-history/managing-software-e
ngineers|The text "Managing Software Engineers|Philip Greenspun:
Managing Software Engineers" is already in English. It appears to be
a title or heading, possibly referring to a work or article by Philip
Greenspun on the topic of managing software engineers.</LINK>


<pic images/volley.ps Beach volleyball on Fridays at five at
Netscape>

I have, by the way, set up a small program that implements a table
tennis ranking system and is becoming increasingly popular. People in
the department can challenge each other and improve their rank by
competing against one another according to meticulously established
rules set by me.

<pic images/pingpong.ps A colleague in the table tennis room>

Additionally, there is a small webcam (computer camera) in the table
tennis room that takes a picture of the room every minute. This
allows you to observe the room from your workstation using a regular
web browser and see if the table tennis table is currently available
for a match.

But as I said, those times are over: Such equipment can currently be
purchased cheaply at foreclosure auctions of bankrupt so-called
"DotCom" companies. This, of course, also affects the rest of the
economy, because when the Silicon Jockeys are no longer earning
millions, they are not throwing money around with full hands anymore.
For example, the company that used to wash and wax cars by hand once
a week in the Netscape parking lot recently went bankrupt. Tough
times are also approaching for party organizers, T-shirt printers,
and game equipment manufacturers.

<pic images/gladiators.ps The gladiator game during the summer
festival 2001>

In San Francisco, the luxury restaurants where employees of internet
companies used to have their upscale lunches are closing down one
after another. The "$1000 dresser but the drawers don't close
properly" furniture stores are groaning under the economic crisis.
Landlords have to leave "$2000 for two small rooms but the plaster is
falling off the walls" apartments vacant. We are dismayed!

@Z: Heim nach Deutschland?" translates to "Home to Germany?" in
English.

<em>Michael</em> 
While companies in Silicon Valley are groaning under the crisis,
there seems to be an even harsher shortage of computer experts in
Germany. How else could one explain that the "Stuttgart Region" is
calling back the computer superheroes who had taken off to the USA
and enticing them with all sorts of amusing gimmicks like a "free
city tour"?

<pic images/home.ps No Place Like Home -- The Stuttgart region brings
back the runaway heroes from Silicon Valley.>

The website www.move-back.de even announced that on September 5,
2001, planes with huge advertising banners would fly over the
metropolitan areas of New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco,
urging people to return to their homeland. We didn't see anything. It
was probably a harebrained idea from Swabia that had been sitting in
a drawer for three years. Well, if there had been at least 100 Marks
as a welcome gift, like back in the day for East Germans, I might
have considered it... but joking aside: folks, I believe that hard
times are ahead for you in Germany. I dare to predict that the German
market will be hit in the same way, with a delay of about 6-12
months.

@Z: The record of the month

<pic images/puffy.ps Puffy Ami Yumi," the pop sensation from Japan>

<em>Michael</em> 
And here comes DJ Mike again with the brand new "CD of the Month."
This time: "Spike" by the Japanese pop sensation "Puffy Ami Yumi."
Angelika gave me the record for my birthday, and since then I've been
listening to it day and night--it's sheer madness. However, I learned
from a Japanese colleague that in Japan, only female teenagers are
totally into "Puffy Ami Yumi" and even copy their hairstyles. The
style is a mix of the Beach Boys and Green Day--a kind of department
store punk. Those who know the French "Les Rita Mitsouko" will know
what I'm talking about. The short, clipped vowels typical in
Japanese, which words end with, sound so funny and pleasant, and
sometimes I even understand fragments like "hitori de" = alone and
"watashi mo" = me too! A mega record, buy it immediately at a
specialty record store of your choice!

@Z: The most useless sports items in the world

<em>Michael</em> 
And here is the new series: The most useless sports items in America.
As you might know, Americans don't engage in natural sports like
soccer; instead, they put on suits of armor and helmets, carry the
ball with their hands, and foul like there's no tomorrow. Mysterious
America! I will never understand the rules of this sport. But since
we always have sports equipment catalogs available for reading in our
bathroom, today I will introduce the two most useless items I found
there: First, the small stand that holds an egg-shaped football
upright (illustration (#10)).

<pic images/foot.ps (#10) A stand to hold the egg-shaped football
upright.>

In American football, there is a situation where someone actually has
to kick the ball into the goal with their foot. This happens maybe
three or four times in a game, and for this, a washed-up European
soccer player comes off the bench each time (Lothar, that could be
something for you!), another player holds the football upright with
their hand, and the washed-up European soccer player kicks the ball
from 30 or 40 meters into a goal that is about as wide as a soccer
goal but 10 meters high, and there is no goalkeeper. To practice this
situation in the absence of a teammate to hold the ball, the Eastbay
sports catalog offers a practical metal football holder. For only
$19.95! Well, if you need it.

<pic images/muff2.ps The Green Bay Packer swears by the muff.>

Football is played in very different climates in the USA. The Green
Bay Packers are famous for inviting Californian teams to play in the
freezing cold of Wisconsin, where temperatures can easily drop to
minus 20 degrees in winter. The Californians often freeze their butts
off and lose. But wait, there's help for the Californian "sunny
boys": the hand warmer for football players. It's a small fur tube
that hangs around the neck, where players can stick their hands
during the frequent breaks in football games and warm them up with a
pocket warmer. These football players are all wimps. They act tough
but warm themselves with grandma's hand warmer. Ha!

That's it once again from our cheerful world in America. Take care,
until the Christmas newsletter! Your America adventurers

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

