San Francisco, 12-12-2001

<pic images/wei.ps Christmas 2001>

@Z: Christmas 2001

<em>Angelika</em> 
Dear newsletter friends!
Today, I read with horror in the Süddeutsche Zeitung "... only 12
days left": Christmas is approaching. It's time to write the
Christmas newsletter. Michael diligently avoids this task every year,
so once again, you will have to make do with my thoughts. To maintain
my tradition, I will focus on more serious topics this year as well.
The global political situation hardly allows for anything else. From
America to England to Germany, anti-terrorism laws are being passed
in fast-track procedures, and most politicians care little about
whether they suspend democratic principles. There is still war in
Afghanistan, and in Israel, everyone is sitting on a powder keg.

TODO

The history has shown the negative phenomena to which fear and the
resulting fanaticism for security and intolerance lead: Germany finds
itself at the forefront of this. Today, however, I would like to talk
about a dark chapter in American history that we encountered up close
on one of our recent short trips in September, and about which little
is known in Germany (Michael and I certainly didn't learn about it in
school). Parallels to the current situation are intentional.

<pic images/m1.ps Memorial stone in Manzanar>

We are driving through the vast expanse of California. On Highway
395, we head south towards Lone Pine. To the right, the mountain
ranges of the Sierra Nevada rise up. We wouldn't be surprised if a
cowboy appeared over the next hilltop, riding his horse into the
sunset. This is the land of diners, steaks, and weak coffee--and
breathtaking landscapes. A Wild West clichÃ©. The heat fits the
picture as well. But shortly after the town of "Independence," the
myth of the Marlboro advertisement fades. We approach the "Manzanar"
memorial. Here, during World War II, the American government under
President Franklin D. Roosevelt interned up to 10,000 people of
Japanese descent, many of them with American passports.

<pic images/m2.ps The former auditorium>

After the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor in Hawaii, forcing the USA
into World War II, there was a fear that Americans of Japanese
descent were collaborating with the Japanese government.
Consequently, on February 19, 1942, Order Number 9066 was issued. To
avoid jeopardizing national security, Japanese Americans were forced
to relocate to guarded camps surrounded by barbed wire.

Only essential items (blankets, bedding, clothing, etc.) were allowed
to be packed and brought in a maximum of two suitcases. Manzanar was
one of the first of a total of ten internment camps, which were
officially also called concentration camps. In total, the American
government interned approximately 120,000 Japanese citizens. In
Manzanar, there were 36 wooden barracks where children, women, and
men had to live in very cramped conditions, deprived of their homes,
jobs, and valuables, until the camp was closed in November 1945.

Although Manzanar was declared a National Historic Site in 1972,
there is still no visitor center or museum at the former internment
camp. Few visitors find their way here, as large parts of American
society continue to taboo and suppress the topic of this internment.
During our visit, we encountered only one other tourist. To learn
about the history of Manzanar, we stopped at the museum in
Independence, where there is a lovingly crafted, amateurish,
permanent exhibition about the camp. They also built a faithful
replica of a barrack room there. On the campgrounds themselves, only
the original auditorium, which was used for social gatherings, parts
of the cemetery with a memorial stone, the pagoda-like police post,
and one of the guardhouses still exist.

<pic images/m3.ps Hinweisschild>

Visitors are allowed to drive their cars along the dusty roads of the
camp. And although there are hardly any buildings left to see,
visitors can sense what the internees went through here. Wooden signs
mark the positions of the barracks. They are so close together that
it doesn't take much imagination to envision the cramped conditions.
Upon reaching the cemetery, we notice the colorful folded cranes
strung on chains. We learn their significance only later. In Japan,
there is a belief that if you fold 1,000 cranes, you are granted a
wish that will come true. Today, the symbol of the 1,000 cranes also
represents a wish for peace: After the atomic bomb was dropped on
Hiroshima, a Japanese girl named Sadako developed leukemia. She began
folding cranes to wish for health but died before she could complete
the 1,000 cranes. As a result, many projects were initiated in her
name to create lasting peace in the world.

<pic images/m4.ps Papier-Kraniche>

<pic images/m5.ps Papier-Kraniche>

When you leave the former internment camp, you pass by a plaque with
the following inscription:

The translation you provided is already in English: "May the
injustices and humiliation suffered here as a result of hysteria,
racism, and economic exploitation never emerge again.

In my opinion, there is no better Christmas message this year.

In this spirit, we wish you thoughtful, peaceful holidays!

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

P.S.: Last week, Americans of Japanese descent presented cranes to
their Muslim fellow citizens to show their solidarity.

