San Francisco, 03-24-2002

@Z: Travel Diary: Vichy Springs

<pic images/vichy.ps Old Man on a Spa Treatment>

<em>Angelika</em> Today I am opening our travel journal again: This time we
drove with the "PERL MAN" (our car's license plate) for two hours on Highway
101 North to Ukiah, to the "Vichy Springs Resort." There, you can find a
natural healing spring, where warm, carbonated, and mineral-rich water comes
from the depths of the earth. This water is safe to drink and also promises
various benefits when you bathe in it. It not only helps with stomach ulcers,
gout, rheumatism, and arthritis but also soothes sunburn.  Burns and skin
injuries heal faster. And for those who do not yet suffer from the various
ailments described, the soothing water helps to simply relax and unwind. By
the way, the place is called "Vichy Springs" because their water is
remarkably similar to the French original--showing America's pragmatic
nature.

The healing properties of the spring water have been known to the
ancient Pomo Indians for millennia. The current resort opened its doors in
1854. By American standards, that's ancient, a historical sensation.
Vichy Springs attracted notable figures such as Mark Twain, Robert
Louis Stevenson, Jack London, and even a few American presidents.
Back then, it was considered "mega cool" in San Francisco to head to
Vichy Springs. There was even a dance hall to ensure that the fun
didn't come to an abrupt end after a refreshing bath. Today, things
are a bit more tranquil, and you're more likely to encounter famous
Perl book authors (haha!). We slept in a cozy room that was
renovated not too long ago and enjoyed long walks on the vast grounds
in addition to extensive baths.

<pic images/rot.ps On a walk in Vichy Springs: The reddest tree in America>

Bathing in the healing water proceeds as follows: Since it would be
somewhat impractical and perhaps not very environmentally friendly
for everyone to gather in the not-so-large spring for bathing, there
are various bathtubs fed by the spring. Some of these bathtubs are
outdoors, while others are in a covered, long hut divided by walls,
so that there are always two bathtubs next to each other in a small
room. Even in the covered huts, it is required to keep your swimsuit
or swim trunks on, which at first glance doesn't seem unusual in
prudish America. However, there are several places in Northern
California with natural springs where you are allowed to enter
unclothed ("clothing optional" is what it's called here). This might
also be because these places attract many freedom-loving old hippies
or "New Age" people.

But I digress. The bathtubs have a huge metal plug that you simply
pull out on one side and then plug back in on the other side. As soon
as you do this, the water starts bubbling and the bathtub fills to
the brim, limited by the natural water pressure of the spring. When
you get into the water, it initially doesn't feel too warm. The trick
is to stay completely still. Then, small bubbles slowly form around
your body like a second skin. Your veins expand, your blood starts to
circulate more vigorously, and your body warms up from the inside, so
to speak. Usually, the stomach area warms up first, followed by the
other parts of the body. It's a funny feeling. By the way, the
bathtubs are brownish in color due to the minerals in the water. On
our first evening there, we got into the baths at dusk, and Michael amused
me with stories about what might be at the bottom of the bathtub.
It's a good thing I'm not easily scared. If you ever find yourself in
the Ukiah area, stop by Vichy Springs. By the way, you don't have to
be a hotel guest to enjoy the healing waters. A day pass grants you
access.

@Z: At the Healer in Chinatown

<em>Angelika</em> 
And here is another story regarding unconventional healing methods.
In America, alternative ideas like homeopathy are only slowly gaining
acceptance. Doctors still readily prescribe antibiotics for colds.
Medications like aspirin are bought in bulk at the supermarket.
However, in San Francisco, methods like acupuncture, acupressure, or
holistic medicine are quite common. Immigrants from various
cultural backgrounds enrich San Francisco not only culinarily.
Furthermore, San Francisco has always been known as a melting pot of
alternative movements. For enthusiasts of natural medicine, the
"Chinatown" neighborhood offers a true treasure trove, as traditional
Chinese medicine can be found there at every turn.

I still remember well our beginnings in San Francisco. Back then, I
dutifully attended various English courses at City College (something like
adult education classes). One of the course participants, an older
Vietnamese gentleman, complained about knee pain and went to his
regular doctor, who immediately wanted to perform knee surgery. The
gentleman then hurried to Chinatown for acupuncture, and the knee
pain disappeared. That impressed me a lot at the time. I have also
always been fascinated by the small shops in Chinatown that sell the
most exotic herbs. Unfortunately, I have never dared to buy anything
because, firstly, I have no idea what helps with which ailment, and
secondly, the herb containers only have labels with Chinese
characters. However, my friend Anne often goes to a Chinese herbalist
and always talks about it enthusiastically. And since I've been
suffering from an undefined throat problem for quite some time, which
conventional doctors can't seem to solve, I thought I would give it a
try as well.

<pic images/herb.ps Traditional Chinese medicinal herbs with formulation>

Making an appointment was not easy at all, as the person who answered
the phone spoke hardly any English, a very common phenomenon in
Chinatown. However, I eventually managed to snag one. Now, you shouldn't
imagine the whole thing as a doctor's office. Quite the opposite, the
specialist sat at a desk in the back of the herbal shop. In front of
her desk were a few chairs for those waiting, meaning everyone could
hear everything, including customers standing at the counter
buying something. When I entered the shop, it seemed like I traveled
from San Francisco to China at light speed. The shop was filled with Chinese
customers, and snippets of Chinese words were flying around me. Being in an
environment where you suddenly find yourself in the minority is an
extremely interesting experience. Although everyone was very friendly
to me, I felt a bit out of place because I didn't understand
anything.

Eventually, I reached the herbal specialist and described
my symptoms to her. She asked me a few questions and quickly wrote Chinese
characters down on a piece of paper. I turned pale with
envy, as we were just struggling through our first Chinese characters
in our third Japanese course. Then she measured my pulse, looked at
my tongue, and handed the note to her colleague standing behind the
counter. He then opened all sorts of drawers, weighed herbs on an
old-fashioned scale, and distributed everything into five brown bags.
I paid 32 dollars (5 dollars for each bag of herbs and 7 dollars for
the consultation) and left. At home, I first took a good look at the
herbal rarities in peace. There were things I had never seen in my
life. I then made a tea from the whole thing by mixing the herbs with
four cups of water and boiling it for about an hour. Of course, I
also had to drink the tea. It didn't even taste that bad.
Unfortunately, my throat is still bothering me, but the experience
was definitely worth the visit to the herbal specialist.

@Z: Bavarian Influences In the California Mountains

<pic images/bergfrei1.ps At the lodge of the "Friends of Nature" from San Francisco.>

TODO

<em>Angelika</em> 
A unique feature of a completely different kind was what we were
looking for recently during one of our weekend hikes in the Mount
Tamalpais area. The Mount Tamalpais region is about a 45-minute drive
north of San Francisco and offers great hikes in hilly landscapes
with beautiful views of the ocean. We had known for some time that
there is a mountain hut hidden in the forest there, where you can
picnic and drink beer on the terrace. Unfortunately, we had not yet
managed to find it. However, since I always read all kinds of travel
literature, I found a description in a hiking guide on how to get to
the hut. So, one Sunday, we set off. Now, this might not seem like
anything special to you. Therefore, it should be noted that the
concept of mountain huts has not yet caught on in America. No one
here climbs around in the mountains expecting to find a mountain hut
at the end of the trail to satisfy their hunger and thirst.

<pic images/bergfrei3.ps Nature lovers -- not a nudist club, just mountain enthusiasts.>

How does a mountain hut end up in California? The "Touristen-Verein
Die Naturfreunde" (Tourist Club The Nature Friends) is behind it.
Founded in 1895 in Vienna as a movement of the Austrian Social
Democratic Workers' Party, the Nature Friends aimed to enable workers
and their families to spend their leisure time in nature. The club
quickly gained immense popularity in Europe. By 1914, the first club
house in America had already opened its doors--naturally, as you
might have guessed, near San Francisco in the Mount Tamalpais area.
Today, the "Touristen-Verein Die Naturfreunde" is a union of hikers
and mountaineers. There are about 1,400 club houses in 21 countries.
This is how we came to enjoy freshly tapped German beer in the sun
while taking in the view. However, the food was limited to American
potato chips and the like from a bag, as the hut is not a
professionally run restaurant but is maintained by club members. Only
the Californian landscape reminded us that we were not sitting
somewhere in Austria or Bavaria, as the Nature Friends house could
easily be transplanted there. In San Francisco and its surroundings,
there is nothing that doesn't exist.

<pic images/bergfrei2.ps Bavarian influences in California>

@Z: A faux pas by the immigration authority

<em>Angelika</em> 
Even today, I am not spared from reporting on the American
immigration authority, with which we are, as is well known, on
familiar terms. The press reported that a flight school in Florida
received a letter from the Immigration Office last week regarding
Mohammed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi: The change of their tourist visas
to student visas was approved. Just to refresh your memory: The
individuals mentioned are two of the terrorists who flew the planes
into the World Trade Center in New York six months ago. The press
release, which turned out to be true, led to tumultuous conditions.
Bush and his associates were deeply dismayed at how something like
this could happen. Heads rolled at the immigration authority. Now, in
defense of the immigration authority, I must mention that they
approved the student visas back in the summer of 2001 (before the
attacks) and informed Mohammed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi of this in
writing. Unfortunately, it took another six to seven months to inform
the schools, as the data had to be manually entered into the
immigration authority's computer system. This blunder did not
surprise us, as we are aware of the antiquated computer system and
have experienced all sorts of hair-raising incidents with the
immigration authority ourselves. One could laugh at this absurd story
if it weren't for the wait for our own Green Card. Because if the
immigration authority is now under increased scrutiny and any
restructuring takes place, everything will slow down even more.

@Z: Fundraising in the USA

<pic images/fund.ps This is how children collect money for charitable purposes.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Scene change: Recently, I was once again strolling up 24th Street in
our neighborhood and ran into a few schoolchildren at every street
corner selling cookies or chocolate. I never used to understand what
that was all about. But after our neighbor's kids also knocked on our
door to sell their chocolate, I got the idea. The kids aren't trying
to help the chocolate industry; no, they are raising money for their
school by labeling bars that cost 60 cents, selling them for $2.00,
and donating the money for a good cause. This is called "fundraising"
in America. For example, our neighbor's school needs new computers.
The kids aren't collecting because their school is in dire straits.
Fundraising is a quintessentially American principle. It runs like a
red thread through the life of every American. Since the American
government only helps when there's no other option, American
non-profit organizations rely on donations. Americans are not only
world champions in donating but also extremely creative when it comes
to raising money. There are marathons and balls where participants
gather sponsors to pay the high entry fees (sometimes amounting to
several thousand dollars), which then go to the good cause. People
cycle from San Francisco to Los Angeles, and kids sell lemonade on
the sidewalk. On weekends, we often see teenagers waving signs to
direct cars into a parking lot, where they then wash the cars for a
fee that goes to the charity. Donations are made on a large scale:
entire museums and universities have been created this way. In such
institutions, you will usually find at least one employee whose sole
task is to solicit donations from industry and wealthy citizens.

<pic images/laidsf.ps Fundraising for AIDS by Bicycle>

Additionally, it is a societal obligation in the USA to engage in
volunteer work. I know people here who work full-time, more than 40
hours a week, have children, and still dedicate several hours a week
to voluntary community service. Working for the welfare of the
community is instilled in Americans from an early age. In the
Tenderloin, for example, we often have schoolchildren who work with
us for an entire week without pay. The school organizes this. It is
not intended for career exploration, but rather the children learn to
do something for the community ("give back to the community").

The possibilities for volunteering are limitless. A well-known
program in America is called "Big Brothers, Big Sisters." In this
program, you act as a mentor to a child. You go on outings, help with
academic difficulties, and so on. By the way, San Francisco has an
organization that coordinates volunteer activities (the "Volunteer
Bureau of San Francisco"). Organizations announce there when and for
what they need helpers. Interested individuals can view this
information and then decide where they would like to volunteer. By
the way, I found the Tenderloin Childcare Center through this bureau,
where I have been volunteering twice a week for four and a half
years. By the way, I think that European politicians forget this
aspect of private willingness to help (donations and volunteer work)
when they blindly try to transplant elements of American minimal
social policy to Europe.

Let's go back once more to the neighborhood children collecting. The
chocolate sale was not exactly voluntary. Every student had to sell
two large boxes. Practice makes perfect...

Clear the way for Michael!

@Z: Currently on TV

<em>Michael</em> 
When watching TV in the USA, the question arises: cable or satellite
dish? After AT&T (which owns the cable) aired TV commercials with
funny stories suggesting that satellite dish owners are not very
bright, we decided to get cable. With cable, you receive about 60
different channels. However, that's so many that the TV Guide, the
weekly television magazine in the USA, is as thick as the phone book
of a small German town! In the book...
<LINK>http://www.amazon.de/exec/obidos/ASIN/0967453607/perlmeistercom
04|Understanding USA</LINK>
I read that the TV Guide, this completely useless magazine, publishes
12.5 million copies every week and earns $1.17 billion a year from
advertising! By the way, "Understanding USA" is a very interesting
book. For example, it reveals that in Florida, mainly people over 60
live, and in South Texas, hardly anyone goes to college. Or that
white men over 50 make up about 10% of the population but account for
33% of all suicides. Or that between 1990 and 1998, the costs for
universities in the USA increased by 54.2%, while during the same
period, the prices for televisions fell by 52.2%. Or that 30% of all
Black males between 20 and 30 years old in the USA have been in
prison at some point. Or that 43 million Americans have no health
insurance. Or that New Orleans holds the national record with 37% of
its population being overweight. But I digress.

<pic images/tv2.ps (#1) The television program of a single evening!>

Translation: Figure (#1) shows the selection of a TV evening from
6:00 PM to midnight -- completely unusable if you don't already know
what you want to watch. But luckily, as explained in one of the
recent newsletters, we have TiVo, the thinking TV computer that scans
through all the channels day and night, records everything its owners
like, and always has it ready to play.

This has led to us having no idea anymore about what is on which
channel, as TiVo just recorded it at some point. You simply click on
the show based on the title in the TiVo list and enjoy it. Of course,
no normal person goes through channels 40 and above--that's something
only people who sit on the couch all day in their underwear, drink
"Budweiser" beer, and channel surf with the remote control can do. I,
of course, don't do that.

The TiVo box also has nothing to do all day except search for
interesting shows for its owners on the most absurd channel numbers.
This works, as I have written before, by the box learning what the
owners like, and it can sometimes happen that the box discovers
something its owners would never have found themselves. "Travels with
Harry" (Channel 47) is, for example, such a lucky find. Since we like
to watch travel magazines like "Back Area Backroads" (about the San
Francisco area), the TiVo box thought we might also enjoy "Travels
with Harry," a show where a certain Harry Smith travels around
small-town America, uncovering traditions and absurdities. And TiVo
was right; we enthusiastically watch the show every week! Another
example is "Louis Theroux's Weird Weekends" (Channel 48), where a
British reporter from the BBC travels around the world discovering
the most eccentric things.

<pic images/harry.ps Harry Smith from "Travels with Harry" sits in front of his cup of coffee and presents the most absurd events from small-town America.>

With so many TV offerings, there are also shows for niche groups,
like people who paint pictures of moose standing in front of
mountains. In illustration (#11), you can see the painting guy who
spends hours explaining and demonstrating how to paint such pictures.
TiVo now knows that I enjoy watching this kind of nonsense and
records it to Angelika's annoyance, even when "Oprah" is on!

<pic images/paint.ps (#11) The painter guy shows how to paint pictures with moose in the foreground and mountains in the background.>

Before the TV shows, the broadcasters always have to display how much
sex and violence will be shown. In Figure (#12), you can see that
"mild violence" (mild violence, haha!), "adult content" (it could be
about drugs or something), and "adult language" (someone might say
"shit" or "fuck") will be featured. There are also additional
categories for nude scenes, which are handled particularly strictly
in America. In regular programming, there is never, and I mean
never...
nie

<pic images/rating.ps (#12) Before the television program, it is shown how much sex and violence it contains.>

Furthermore, television here is highly regionalized. Similar to how
ARD in Bavaria airs Bavarian programs in the early evening, each city
here has its own television programming. So, it can happen that the
10 o'clock news on Channel 5 leads with the story that the city plans
to increase the toll on the Bay Bridge by one dollar. When we had
only been in San Francisco for a few months, we once made the mistake
of buying a television program during one of our trips just past the
Golden Gate Bridge -- which turned out to be useless because Tiburon
and Sausalito have completely different channel numbers.

In the USA, there are four different time zones: If a nationwide
broadcast airs at 8:00 PM (Pacific Time) in San Francisco, it has
already aired at 7:00 PM in the Mountain Time Zone (Chicago), at 6:00
PM in the Central Time Zone (Texas), and at 5:00 PM Eastern Time (New
York). This leads to conflicts, especially with highly anticipated
shows like the finale of "Survivor": Since the shows must air at the
local prime time due to high advertising revenue, people in New York
already know the outcome three hours earlier.

<pic images/yang.ps (#4) The dental team of "Jang and Associates" in the television commercial>

Regionalism is also reflected in advertising: It can happen that
suddenly a Chinese dentist from San Francisco, with an incredible
accent, promotes his services. Unlike in Germany, doctors and lawyers
here are allowed to advertise like any other company. I regularly
roll on the floor laughing when the commercial nears its end, the
dental team of "Jang and Associates" lines up, the boss shouts "Jang
and Associates!" and they all put on a smile on cue, while his dental
team murmurs "We'll take gooood care of ya!" (Figure (#4)). For the
first dental examination, including X-rays and a written cost
estimate, the diligent dental entrepreneurs charge only $18 instead
of the regular price of $135, as the commercial informs (Figure
(#5)).

<pic images/yang2.ps (#5) Flat rates for dental examination and X-rays>

Since many foreigners live in San Francisco whose native language is
not necessarily English, television reserves channels for Japanese,
Chinese, and Spanish programs. The latter are for Mexicans and have
the pleasant feature of broadcasting sports like soccer, which is
ignored by regular channels even during the World Cup! However, the
"Gooooooool" for every goal takes some getting used to. On the
Japanese channel, I once saw an American football player who, in a
commercial, promoted a certain brand of green tea in fairly good
Japanese. A cult show on Japanese television is the so-called "Iron
Chef." In this show, two chefs, usually one Asian and one
European/American, compete against each other. Both must create a
4-course menu within an hour to impress the Japanese jury (who, of
course, chatter in Japanese, with English subtitles providing the
translation) with their exquisite delicacies. Due to the show's great
success, which also attracted many Americans to the Japanese channel,
the American network UPN launched the show "Iron Chef America,"
hosted by the now elderly and bloated William Shatner (Captain Kirk
from the Enterprise), whose wife drowned in a swimming pool. A
disaster, of course.

<pic images/tgermany1.ps On obscure channels, "Germany live" and "Germany today" are broadcast in the USA.>

For the few Germans in San Francisco, there isn't a dedicated
channel, but KMTV on channel 32 often airs something. Sometime around
four in the morning, there's a program called "Germany Today" from
"Deutsche Welle," which brings the most important news and some
special reports weekly. The program is available in both German and
English. In the English version, German celebrities often appear,
stumbling through with their clumsy English, which makes me laugh
until I cry. Recently, mountain climber Reinhold Messner (see
illustration (#3)) was on, telling the story of Nanga Parbat for the
umpteenth time. Although the English version was grammatically at the
level of a fifth-grader and the pronunciation worse than Helmut
Kohl's, he didn't care and delivered an amazing result -- the man has
class, hats off!

TiVo knows that I'm interested in everything related to Germany and
records it just in case. Most of the time, it's about some nonsense,
like recently about an older German lady who participated in a
marathon at the South Pole. Some Germans have been living here for 40
years or more, and for them, it's surely entertaining. The other
German show, "Germany Live," always focuses on a German city.
Recently, it was LÃ¼beck's turn. I sat electrified in my TV chair!
LÃ¼beck! Wow! But these productions are so endearingly unprofessional
(apparently produced on a very small budget) that I actually watch
them sometimes.

<pic images/holdi.ps (#3) Bergschrat Messner gives an interview in English>

<pic images/tgermany2.ps A Bombshell of a Topic: The Oder-Havel Canal>

Another source of pure television enjoyment is the commercials for
the US Army, which officially has to recruit its professional
soldiers and cannot rely on free cannon fodder like in Germany.
Accompanied by heavy metal music, F-16s piloted by happy pilots land
on aircraft carriers, and camouflaged combat swimmers coolly slide
into the water from inflatable boats with rifles at the ready. Woe to
the one who has to clean the gun afterward, I say as an old veteran!
"Accelerate your Life" is the current slogan. And "Paid for by the US
Navy" is written underneath.

<pic images/tarmy1.ps Men with guns in the army spot.>

<pic images/tarmy2.ps A proud pilot of the US Army>

Overall, the amount of advertising that American television
incorporates is absolutely unbearable. I believe that during prime
time, there are 25 minutes of commercials for every hour of
television. This means that a 90-minute movie can stretch to almost
three hours. In the first hour, the commercial breaks are still
cautious so that not too many viewers drop off, but towards the end,
when it gets exciting and everyone wants to see the outcome, the
movie is interrupted every five minutes for five minutes.
Incidentally, if not all the planned commercial breaks fit into the
available broadcast time, the movie is often shortened. Sometimes you
don't even understand the movie anymore because important scenes are
missing. The only solution is to either subscribe to a premium
channel like HBO (similar to Premiere in Germany) for $30 a month and
let TiVo record everything, or rent videos.

<pic images/tarmy3.ps The US Navy is responsible for this commercial.>

This brings me to another topic: Five years ago, while still living
in Germany, I didn't realize that German-dubbed American films lose
valuable information. Sure, back then I often went to the "Atlantis"
cinema on Schwanthaler Street in Munich to watch films like
"Terminator" in the original version--Arnie Schwarzenegger is
famously priceless when he rumbles in his harsh Austrian-English. But
until then, I had missed the fact that Americans use dialects and
accents to add subtle nuances to films. Just as you can immediately
recognize Munich and Hamburg residents by their dialects on German
television, there are easily noticeable differences in the
English-speaking world between Californians, East Coast residents
(New York, etc.), Southerners (New Orleans, etc.), hillbillies (corn
and potato states of the USA), Canadians, Australians, Irish,
British, Scots, and foreigners who speak English with an accent:
Asians, Indians, Italians, Spaniards, Russians, and Germans.

This tradition is still maintained in Hollywood. When a previously
unknown character speaks in a film, an American sitting in the cinema
can determine within three seconds which continent the person comes
from. Just as someone in a Hamburg bakery saying "Gehm's mer mol zwoa
Semmel, bittschï¿½n!" would immediately be identified as Bavarian, it
is noticeable in films like "Crocodile Dundee" that the hero greets
people with an Australian "G'Day Mate," which is unheard of in the
USA. Such nuances are naturally lost in the German
translation--unless Crocodile Dundee were to speak Bavarian in New
York, which could, of course, unleash unexpected comedic energy if he
were to throw a firm "GrÃ¼Ã Gott!" at the doorman.

In the numerous Nazi films in the USA, the ringleaders speak short
German phrases that every American knows: "Schnell, Schnell!" (Quick,
Quick!), "Marsch!" (March!), "Blitzkrieg!" -- and otherwise, of
course, a ludicrous English. They pronounce the English "th" as a
hissing "s" (American "z"), and the English "r," which usually
resides in the back of the throat with a rolled tongue, is either
rolled Bavarian-style or rasped North German-style. The English "w,"
typically pronounced as "uua," is pronounced like the German "w,"
similar to how Americans pronounce "v." So, if two flustered Nazis in
a film wonder where their leader is, they say in correct film
English, "Vere is ze Hauptmann?" (Where is the captain?).

One must realize this: All actors in American films, regardless of
nationality, speak English for obvious reasons. However, the Nazi in
war films speaks with a German accent, the Australian with his broad
sing-song, the Black character in hip-hop clothes with a street
dialect, the Wall Street guy from New York with his dry East Coast
accent, and the Brit, of course, with school English, while the Scot
rolls the "r." Someone told me that in the latest "Star Wars"
episode, all the villains speak either with a Japanese or German
accent. Or who among you knew that the man from the engine room of
the "Starship Enterprise" is called "Scotty" only because he rolls
the "r" like a Scot?

In the course of the Olympic coverage, television aired a report
about the Bavarian national hero and luger Georg Hackl, who is also
called the "flying white sausage" and unfortunately messed up the
gold medal this time. Schorsch's English is, of course, a bit, um,
limited. He spoke German while an American voice provided a
translation of his audible remarks in the background for the American
viewers. But the fascinating thing was: the translator spoke American
with a German accent! Not even artificially -- the broadcaster
specifically hired a German expatriate to present the interview with
Hacklschorsch in such a way that even the last American would
understand: Schorsch is from Germany.

And American TV series, as you all know, are often adapted and
adopted by German broadcasters. I read that more and more Germans who
are arrested in Germany insist on having their rights read to them
("Anything you say can be used against you in court, blah blah...").
These dummies probably don't know that these are the so-called
Miranda Rights, which are only valid in the USA! People just watch
too many American crime series.

@Z: The newsletter editorial team

<em>Michael</em> 
Again and again, the newsletter fans ask: "How do these absurd
newsletter topics come about? Do you hire crazy people to come up
with them?" Today, we want to take a look behind the scenes of the
newsletter editorial team: Illustration (#2) shows Michael during the
newsletter production. Of course, alcohol (a mug of red wine on the
table) and loud fun-punk music are involved (I'm holding the album
"Drop Your Pants and Jacket" by Blink 182 in my hand). Further
inspiration comes from the skyline of San Francisco, visible through
the open window. If you enlarge the picture, you can see a bright
rectangle in the distance, which is the headlights of thousands of
cars driving from Oakland over the Bay Bridge into San Francisco. Who
would want to live anywhere else!

<pic images/gruebel.ps (#2) The harsh working conditions in the newsletter editorial office>

@Z: Blutgruppen

<em>Michael</em> 
In addition to learning the language, we also get to know some
cultural peculiarities in the Japanese course. We were surprised to
find out that in Japan it is common to directly ask someone about
their blood type. Belonging to A, B, O, or AB is somewhat similar in
importance to zodiac signs in the Western world.
http://www.geocities.com/~castleinthesky/blood.htm
As you can read, people with blood type A are supposedly very
serious, determined, reliable, but also stubborn. On the other hand,
carriers of blood type B show a wide range of interests, so many that
they sometimes jump too quickly from one topic to the next. They are
often mentally absent and do not directly seek contact with other
people, but they tend to show extraordinary achievements and are
usually great jokers. Carriers of blood type O bring harmony to every
group, are good-natured, peaceful, loved by everyone, and appear
easy-going at first glance, but can display remarkable stubbornness.
Finally, people with blood type AB take great care of others and have
many friends. They are strict with themselves and the people close to
them, but they show a considerable amount of sentimentality towards
outsiders. By the way, blood type O is predominant in America, while
blood type A is the most common in Japan. Now you can guess which
blood type(s) Angelika and I have -- the first correct submission
will be rewarded with a self-burned newsletter CD, with which you can
read all the newsletters from 1996 to 2002 on your computer without
having to dial into the internet!

And I gather some more peculiarities from our textbook: It is
completely normal for Japanese people to ask how old their
conversation partner is. If it is an unmarried woman over 25, the
question "Why are you not married yet?" immediately follows. This is
by no means intended to be rude; it is merely for conversation! If
you have been married for a few years and have no children, questions
like "Why don't you have children yet?" and "You should have children
as soon as possible" are quite culturally common. The textbook
advises against countering such questions with "That's none of your
business," as it would ruin the conversation. Instead, you should
view such inquiries as small talk and respond humorously or simply
smile and say nothing, which is culturally perfectly acceptable.

By the way, we both passed our "Beginning 3" exam in the intense
course at the Soko-Gakuen School in San Francisco's Japantown
(Angelika 99%, me 90%) and are well-prepared with the essential
phrases, 250 Hiragana/Katakana, and 80 Kanji characters for our trip
to Japan. Sometimes, our Japanese teacher even praises us -- my
favorite sentence: "Very good! -- for this level.

@Z: The newsletter top product

<em>Michael</em> 
And finally, today's newsletter top product: the CD storage units
from Discgear, which Angelika once gave me as a gift. Since I am
known to prefer starving over living without music, I tend to
accumulate quite a few CDs. I always immediately throw away the small
plexiglass boxes (so-called jewel cases) in which CDs are sold these
days, as they are the most useless invention since the bendable
straw. If I kept all of them, my CD collection would be taller than
the Bank of America building in San Francisco. Instead, I use the
futuristic-looking boxes from the company Discgear, which are only
about 30 cm wide and can hold 80 CDs (nowadays, there are even ones
that hold 100!). A refreshing alternative to the
300-mark-but-only-hold-60-CDs stands from the yuppie stores. To
retrieve the CDs, there is a slider on the front of the box that you
set to a number between 1 and 80. When you then open the lid, the
selected CD pops up, and you can easily take it out with your fingers
and place it in the CD player. On the other hand, each CD has a small
sticker indicating which box and position it belongs to, in case 20
CDs are lying around the apartment again because you were too lazy to
put them back in the box.

<pic images/discgear.ps The CD organization system by Discgear. In the background, the self-written sorting software.>

But that's not all: On the front of the case, you can attach a table
of contents that assigns a title and an artist to each number.
However, the software that comes with Discgear is somewhat subpar and
not recommended. But since I'm in the field, there's more: On my
website, there's a program that searches for a keyword you enter (for
example, "Red Hot Chili Peppers") and then tells me in which of my
Discgear cases and at which positions CDs from this group are
located. If anyone is interested, I'd be happy to send them the small
Perl program. And in my monthly column for the German Linux Magazine,
which I've been writing for almost five years, I introduced a small
program for labeling the case in the March issue.
http://www.linux-magazin.de/ausgabe/2002/03/perl/perl.htm
The Discgear storage is available at www.discgear.com, not very
cheap, but very practical. Drives the yuppie stores to ruin!

@Z: Coupons

<em>Michael</em> 
I have often written that in the USA, it is very important to pay
attention to money. It is a kind of national pastime here to always
buy goods where they are cheapest, even if it is sometimes a bit
inconvenient. For example, supermarkets here continuously send out
advertisements with attached "coupons." If you present the coupon in
the store, you get the item at the offered price; if you buy it
without a coupon, you pay more. You can't imagine how many people
actually cut out the coupons from the newspaper, present them at the
supermarket, and then save a dollar when they buy three packs of the
advertised product. This is quite normal in the USA, and no one looks
at you strangely if you hand over 20 collected coupons at the
checkout. Except, of course, if the person is unlucky enough that...
ich

<pic images/ad.ps An advertisement for cat food in the newspaper. If you buy two cans, you get one free when you present the coupon!>

Today, I'm going to exclusively share with you my personal theory on
why the glaring difference between the rich and the poor in America
hasn't yet sparked a revolution: It's because you can get by with
very little money here if you systematically take advantage of
special offers. Just take McDonald's, for example: A hamburger costs
about 29 cents. In a traditional restaurant, a (admittedly better)
hamburger costs 6 dollars. 100g of ground beef in the supermarket
costs 50 cents. However, 100g of filet mignon costs 6 dollars. The
cheapest options in the USA are extremely cheap, even by
international standards. But if you want something that's just a
little bit better, it immediately costs ten times as much.

<pic images/coupons.ps (#10) Mailbox advertisement: Rabies vaccination for cats (only 4 dollars), sushi (5 dollars off with a bill of 25 dollars), teeth whitening at the dentist (only 99 dollars instead of 250 dollars).>

<pic images/flyer.ps A dentist distributes flyers to advertise his practice.>

In addition to the coupons in newspaper ads, we receive an envelope
full of coupons for the local stores once a month. While I usually
throw the envelope away unopened, I took a closer look at the
newsletter once: As you can see in illustration (#10), everything is
included: From rabies vaccinations for cats ($4) to Japanese sushi
($5 discount on a bill of $25) and a coupon for a dentist who whitens
teeth and offers a special price of only $99 instead of the usual
$250. The joint practice of Terry Nguyen (sounds Vietnamese) and
David Barrelier (obviously of French descent), both DDS, meaning
dentists, makes it possible. Well, but the team at Jang Associates
probably can't be outdone by the two!

That's it for today, dear friends in faraway Germany! To all of you:

Happy Easter!

Angelika und Michael
