San Francisco, 07-23-2002

<pic images/gca.ps Achievement unlocked: The Green Card.>

<em>Michael</em> 
And here we are again -- your intrepid newsletter reporters Angelika
and Michael, who have been living in one of the most exciting cities
in the USA for more than five years now, studying the country and its
people, and still earnestly trying not to become completely
Americanized! And I'm bursting to share the sensational news: We
recently, after years of hoping and worrying, finally received our
Green Card in the mail! Angelika will describe in detail how the
final steps went -- but first, a few local news updates:

@Z: Addendum to the Soccer World Cup

<em>Michael</em> I rarely manage to sit through a soccer game on TV these days.
While I can run around on the soccer field for hours, I just don't have the
patience to watch the usual back-and-forth in the midfield during the usual
soccer games on TV. I always think to myself: Oh my, the time, the time! I
could have written three Perl programs by now!

This year, however, we couldn't resist: We actually got up at 4:30 in
the morning and watched the World Cup games live. Probably because no one does that
here. Although the USA made it to the round of 16 this time,
"soccer," as the Americans call it, remains an exotic sport.

<pic images/soccer.ps David Beckham and I wear the same football boots.>

Except for our Mexican neighbor, of course, who was watching
enthusiastically. And suffered along when Mexico lost to the USA.
Mexicans are not highly regarded in the USA, as most have to work in
minimum-wage jobs due to a lack of alternatives, and very few manage
to escape the vicious cycle.

In California, Mexicans harvest citrus fruits and grapes, cover
roofs, and carry out private demolition work, clean cars, mow lawns,
and wash dishes in restaurants.

<pic images/chavez.ps Union leader Cesar Chavez on a postage stamp>

Without Mexicans, the Californian economy would immediately collapse.
On Cesar Chavez Street in San Francisco, which ironically bears the
name of a man who advocated for fairer wages for low-wage workers,
hundreds of Mexicans stand every day waiting for a wealthy homeowner
in a pickup truck to drive by and pick up three or four people so
they can do jobs for five or six dollars an hour that no one else
wants to do. But in soccer, they had been ahead so far -- and then
the overlord USA comes and wins, which was bitter and was discussed
as such here and in Mexico.

<pic images/wasch2.ps In California, almost only Mexicans wash cars.>

What I actually wanted to say: The Mexicans here are absolutely
passionate about soccer and speak very highly of the German team. Our
neighbor recently told me that the German superstar goalkeeper Oliver
Kahn is called "el gato volador" on the Spanish channel in San
Francisco -- the "flying cat," who pounces like a predator and
deflects the balls. Recently, the Mexican commentators on TV have not
only been extending the word "Gooooool" for 20 seconds (no joke, I
timed it), but the latest trend is to chant "Gol Gol Gol Gol Gol
Gol," which sounds like an American police siren. By the way, it
doesn't matter which team scores the goal, the "goool!" celebration
happens in any case.

And in San Francisco, as is well known, there are more foreigners
than Americans, and that's why some bars were even open in the early
morning hours to give soccer fans the opportunity to watch the games
live. However, there was no beer, because there is a ban on alcohol
sales between 2 and 6 AM in San Francisco, which is strictly
enforced.

@Z: Personalized tickets

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, I thought to myself: It would be nice if we got a parking
ticket as a memento of our time in San Francisco, with "PERL MAN" on
it -- the personalized police license plate of our car (<RBLINK>000309#1</RBLINK>).
On Sunday afternoon, it finally happened: I came home from the
supermarket and boldly parked the trusty "PERL MAN" on the sidewalk
to unload it. Upstairs in the apartment, Angelika signaled to me that
she was on the phone with Oldenburg and that we could set off to an
outing in two minutes. In high spirits, I turned on the TV. An hour
later, it happened, and we had a parking ticket on the car, hooray!
At $25, it wasn't exactly cheap, but it's a unique souvenir, as you
can see in illustration (#3)!

<pic images/ticket.ps (#3) A ticket for PERL MAN>

You can also see that it costs $250 if you park at a bus stop or
$275 if you park a car without a disabled permit in a disabled
parking space -- or come within three feet (about one meter) of a
ramp for the disabled! Similarly draconian penalties are imposed for driving
in the carpool lane (<RBLINK>20010701#1</RBLINK>),
a fine of $274 is imposed if you are driving by yourself instead of carrying the mandatory
passenger.
"Parking within 18 inches of curb" costs 23 dollars--I assume this
means that you must not park more than 18 inches (45.54 cm) away from
the curb. And parking in front of a hydrant costs only the everyday
low price of $33--I can afford that, just wait, maybe soon in the
newsletter!

By the way, all of the absurd numerical
values that every Californian driver must know when applying for a
driver's license are listed on a 
<LINK>http://www.monkeydyne.com/soren/tips/dmv-numbers.html|Website by SÃ¸ren F. Ragsdale</LINK>:
For example, you may only park 7.5 feet away from railroad tracks, 15 feet from a fire
hydrant, and 3 feet from a curb ramp.

@Z: The Raging PERL MAN

<em>Michael</em> 
During the week of the American national holiday on July 4th, many
companies in Silicon Valley were closed due to the ongoing economic
crisis, and the streets were unusually empty. So, one morning, I
drove quickly to the office, which is located 60 km south of San
Francisco in Mountain View. On Highway 101, as usual in the leftmost
of four lanes, just before the Mountain View exit, I suddenly saw a
police car appear in the rearview mirror and routinely slowed down to
the prescribed 65 miles per hour (about 100 km/h).

TODO

After following the "PERL MAN" for a while, who didn't seem to notice
and was leisurely drinking his coffee from a commuter mug, the cop
suddenly turned on his siren. At first, I assumed he just wanted to
pass, so I moved to the next right lane. But he followed, and in the
USA, that means: pull over to the right shoulder and prepare to be
checked. Since routine checks are not allowed in the USA, it
generally means you've done something wrong and will have to pay a
fine.

So I changed lane by lane to the left, slowed down, and finally
stopped on the unpaved shoulder of Highway 101. When the cop got out
and approached the car on the passenger side, I rolled down the
window and took out my driver's license, insurance certificate, and
vehicle registration from my wallet. The cop leaned in through the
window and informed me that he had stopped me because someone had
called the police station and complained about the "PERL MAN" for
"reckless driving." I was unaware of any wrongdoing, insisted that I
was driving as fast as usual, and truthfully answered "no" when asked
if I had consumed alcohol or taken drugs that morning. Then he wished
me "safe holidays," and I was allowed to drive off, which I did,
kicking up dust on the shoulder.

That's crazy, just imagine! An obviously mentally challenged person
calls the police because they can remember the personalized license
plate "PERL MAN," and the police actually find it among tens of
thousands of cars on one of the busiest highways in the world! If
this happens more often, I might have to give the license plate back
and speed around incognito with something like "4-ZAP 437".

@Z: The newsletter top product

<pic images/abfl1.ps (#5) A little fruit waste from the juicer poured into the sink ...>

<em>Michael</em> 
Today: The Garbage Disposer E20 by Emerson. I have previously written
that it is common in American kitchens to have a so-called garbage
disposer installed under the sink. Between the drain and the
drainpipe, there is a small grinding mechanism that starts at the
push of a button and grinds waste that could clog the pipes into
pieces small enough to pass through the drainpipe. Whatever you chop
up in the kitchen, you simply dump into the sink, turn on the water
and the grinding mechanism--and whoosh, it goes down the drain!

<pic images/abfl5.ps (#6) ... naturally clogs the pipe.>

TODO

Figure (#5) shows how I poured fruit waste into the sink, and in
Figure (#6) you can see the resulting moderate pipe blockage.
However, a solid half horsepower in the Emerson engine mercilessly
eliminates even stubborn waste (Figure (#7)). Powerful. Reliable.
Emerson.

<pic images/abfl3.ps (#7) At the push of a button, the Emerson E20
clears the line again!>

Some time ago, I overdid it and dumped too much waste in, and Emerson
promptly stopped working. Oh no, I thought, now I have to call the
landlord and wait for a disposal specialist to kindly come by.
However, a look under the sink revealed that the Emerson E20 comes
with a small Allen wrench, which you just insert at the bottom, turn
it around once to manually reduce the waste, and it works again! A
great product!

<pic images/abfl4.ps The newsletter top product: The Emerson E20>

@Z: The CD of the Month

<pic images/strokes.ps The album "Is This It?" by The Strokes>

<em>Michael</em> 
Eagerly anticipated, but recently absent: There just haven't been any
compelling new records. But today it happened: I bought the album
"This Is It" by "The Strokes," which was released half a year ago! I
already knew the song "Last Nite" from the radio, but I had no idea
that "Hard to Explain" and "SOMA" were also on it -- for both songs,
the best way to listen is on a hot day in San Francisco in an
11-year-old Acura Integra without air conditioning, with the windows
rolled down, wearing shorts and barefoot, speeding up the hill trio
on Church Street between 17th and 22nd Street. Then it sounds as if
the music was invented in California, even though it comes from New
York City! Buy it immediately and listen to it nonstop! Until we
discuss the new one from the "Red Hot Chili Peppers," my favorite
band, in the next newsletter.

@Z: The Osbournes in the TV box

<em>Michael</em> 
The most popular show on American television at the moment is called
"The Osbournes." The TV channel MTV came up with the idea of placing
a camera crew in the home of Ozzy Osbourne, the former singer of the
band "Black Sabbath," to follow Ozzy, his wife Sharon, and their two
rambunctious teenage children every step of the way and capture the
everyday life in this unusual household.

<pic images/o1.ps In the living room of the Osbournes>

The Osbournes are British, but they live in an ugly mansion for the
nouveau riche in the upscale suburb of Beverly Hills in Los Angeles.
Ozzy Osbourne is now 53 years old and a total wreck. With "Black
Sabbath"--absolute superstars of the hard rock scene in the
seventies--it was wild: Ozzy consumed drugs like a centrifugal pump.
Today, he shuffles around the house like a zombie, mutters incoherent
things, and yells for his wife (Sharon! Shaarooooon!!) when he can't
find something, the TV is acting up, or the dog has pooped on the
carpet again.

<pic images/o6.ps The luxurious house of the Osbournes>

Parents and children constantly use terrible swear words that
wouldn't even go unpunished in a ghetto family. However, with the
Osbournes, it's completely normal to use the so-called F-word.
Because of this, television has to (as it has before in...
<RBLINK>20001204#5</RBLINK>
The dialogues are censored with beeps: Ozzy: "What the --BLEEP-- is
that?" Daughter Kelly: "The --BLEEP--ing dog --BLEEP-- on the
--BLEEP-ing carpet again!".

<pic images/o4.ps Cursing, Ozzy chases after the cat that has hidden
in the bushes.>

It gets interesting when the completely tattooed Ozzy presents
himself to his offspring as the responsible father and insists, for
example, that the children come home from a party at a certain time.
Or when he confesses to his lovely wife in a Midlands English
working-class dialect: "Sharon, I love you more than life itself..."
("Sharon, I love you more than life itself"). That's what makes the
show so charming.

<pic images/o3.ps The defiant 16-year-old son wants to go to the
rave, but he is not allowed to!>

MTV produced it with a small budget and did not expect it to be
successful at all. However, it was a huge hit and even surpassed the
mega-million productions on other channels in the ratings. MTV
recently extended the contract with the Osbournes for a second
season. The people in charge reported that the negotiations were
completely chaotic, with Ozzy's wife Sharon repeatedly stalling the
MTV people and making wild back-and-forth decisions. Ozzy himself
only catches half of what's going on anyway and will surely be
satisfied with the negotiated fee.
<LINK>http://www.mtv.com/onair/osbournes|The Osbournes</LINK>
The translation to English is: "you will find more about this unusual
family.

Clear the way for Angelika!

@Z: Finally, the Green Card

<em>Angelika</em> 
Hooray! Hooray! The Green Card is here! Miracles still happen. We are
now "Permanent Resident Aliens," as it's called in the finest
bureaucratic American English. We still can't believe it. The word
"Alien" always amuses us greatly because no one in everyday language
refers to a foreigner as an "Alien." That would raise eyebrows and be
politically incorrect. The term is "Foreigner." When people hear
"Alien" here, they think of extraterrestrials and the movie "ET," but
the "INS" (INS = Immigration and Naturalization Services = American
immigration authority) doesn't care about that. Oops, I'm digressing.

Some time ago, I announced that I would report on our third and final
- extremely nerve-wracking - Green Card step. If anyone would like to
read my previous explanations about the Green Card again, they can do
so in the...
<RBLINK>20010905#7</RBLINK>
The translation of "sein GedÃÂ¤chtnis auffrischen" to English is "to
refresh his memory.

And since I don't want to be difficult, here's a quick summary of
steps one and two: We were allowed to apply for the Green Card
because Michael's professional qualifications are beneficial to the
American economy, as there is (or was) a shortage of American
software engineers, which they sought to address with well-educated
foreigners--this is known as immigration for employment reasons
("green card through employment").

AOL applied for Michael's Green Card. The first step was to prove to
the relevant labor authorities that Michael was not taking a job away
from an American, meaning that there was indeed a labor shortage in
his field. The authorities issued the highly sought-after "Labor
Certificate," which is needed to proceed to the second step. By the
way, it has become significantly more difficult to obtain a Labor
Certificate. Due to the weakened American economy, there have been
many layoffs, which have eliminated the shortage, meaning that there
are now enough Americans entering the job market.

In the second step, the American immigration authorities checked
whether Michael really had the necessary qualifications to fill the
position at AOL. The third and final step was to transition from
non-immigrant status (people with visa status) to immigrant status
(people with green cards). The application is usually submitted to
the relevant immigration authority in America and is called
"Adjustment of Status." Throughout this process, I once again played
the "apron strings card" (original quote from Michael). By this,
Michael means that I only got the green card because I am married to
him. Family is a big deal in America.

Even in the last step, it was all about filling out form after form.
If you woke me from a deep sleep, I could still recite off the top of
my head the exact dates of Michael's military service, the companies
he has worked for and for how long, including the corresponding
company addresses, how long we lived at each address, and so on. But
don't panic, I won't write about every single form from the third
step. I'll just share the milestones with you.

@Z: Priority Date

<em>Angelika</em> 
Before we could even begin the third step, our so-called "Priority
Date" had to be current. It's best to think of it like a place in the
Green Card queue, similar to taking a number in some grocery stores
and government offices. Since most Green Cards in the various
categories are subject to an annual quota, bottlenecks occur when the
quota for the respective year is reached - the queue grows and grows.
The number of Green Cards issued by the immigration authorities each
year is then evenly distributed among the individual countries. For
example, people from India usually wait longer because the U.S.
receives many applications from Indian citizens - the Green Cards
available each year are logically used up more quickly. If you come
from Germany, you are among the lucky ones who can essentially jump
right to the counter without waiting, as there are not as many
Germans applying for Green Cards.

@Z: The medical examination

<em>Angelika</em> 
I have already mentioned that the INS (Immigration and Naturalization
Service) does not like it when immigrants with contagious diseases
like tuberculosis populate America. Therefore, for us, it meant going
to the doctor as step number three to rule this out. You can imagine
the whole process as being similar to a medical examination by a
public health officer. We were not allowed to go to our family
doctor; instead, we had to choose one from a list provided by the
INS, who could conduct the examination according to INS regulations
and also fill out the corresponding form correctly. These doctors do
not work exclusively for the immigration authorities; they usually
run a regular private practice. However, they don't earn much from
these examinations, which is why the list mainly includes "doctors
for the poor" from typical immigration countries.

<pic images/doktor.ps The medical practice of the Filipino green card
doctor in the Mission.>

I quickly looked for a doctor in our immediate vicinity and ended up
in the heart of the Mission, the South American neighborhood that is,
as you know, just around the corner from us. We went separately, and
each of us told the same story afterward: In the waiting room, no one
spoke English except for the receptionist, but the doctor, who was
from the Philippines, spoke it quite well and seemed experienced.

He first underwent a very general examination. You know: looking in
the throat, listening to the chest, measuring blood pressure,
determining height and weight, etc. Then he injected us with the
substance for the tuberculosis test and discussed in detail which
vaccinations we had received in childhood and adulthood, as well as
which childhood diseases we had suffered from. On his list for our
age group were: mumps, measles, rubella, tetanus, diphtheria, polio,
whooping cough, chickenpox. Oh, how pleased we were that, as an
organized person, I could present all the vaccination records (even
those from childhood). However, Michael had to bite the bullet: he
had skipped rubella as a child and therefore had to get a
vaccination. We paid $125 for my examination, and $175 for Michael's
due to the additional vaccination.

<pic images/mission.ps Typical: Neighborhood "Mission>

Then it was off to the AIDS test. In the USA, by the way, the doctor
sends you to special labs for blood tests. It's a bit inconvenient,
but the people there are blood-drawing professionals since they do
nothing else all day. Our doctor sent us to a branch of St. Luke's
Hospital right on Mission Street. When I arrived there, I initially
thought something was off. I had to pass by shop windows that, in
typical Mission tradition, advertised cheap, colorful goods with a
South American flair, walk down a dark hallway, and finally stood in
front of an office door. It didn't look like a lab at all. However,
the sign on the door indicated that I was in the right place.
Bravely, I entered and found myself in a tiny room containing a desk,
a table with blood-drawing equipment, a chair, and a person in a
white coat. The first thought that crossed my mind was: Oh dear, I
hope they work diligently here and I don't catch something (Michael
had the same concerns). Don't think we're arrogant, but the American
healthcare system is really in such a bad state, you have no idea
what I've experienced, but maybe more on that another time.

<pic images/test.ps The Testing Laboratory in the Mission>

Before the medical assistant started drawing blood, I signed a form
stating that I understood it was an HIV test. By the way, everyone
signs this, not just Green Card applicants. In general, it's
questionable to undergo such a potentially life-changing test just
because it's required for the Green Card. Just imagine the scenario
of testing positive for HIV. Of course, we also had to pay in
advance. The whole thing cost $126.90 per person, with $77 of that
amount being for the HIV test alone. The rest was for the test that
detects syphilis and some other unclear items. In typical American
fashion, there was a discount if we paid in cash or by check, a hefty
40%. Naturally, we did that. "HIV test on sale!

<pic images/mission2.ps Typical neighborhood 'Mission'>

A few days later, we set off again to see the doctor so he could
examine our tuberculosis skin test. Naturally, we were also
interested in the results of the blood test. When we arrived at the
doctor's office, I asked the receptionist about the results. She
rummaged through our file and cheerfully said that they hadn't
received anything in writing yet, but she would call St. Luke's
Hospital to inquire about the results. She then pulled out the phone
and dialed. I turned a bit pale when she put the call on
speakerphone, as I was in a full waiting room. However, she
reconsidered and turned off the speaker when someone answered on the
other end. Unfortunately, it took forever for the person to find the
results, and I felt a chill run down my spine--you never know.
Finally, the receptionist ended the call but didn't bother to tell me
the results. I shyly asked, and she shrugged nonchalantly, saying
everything was okay. Unbelievable! The rest was quick and painless:
the doctor read the TB test and filled out the form for the
immigration office with shaky hands, with the receptionist
occasionally correcting him. We still wonder today that everything
was correct.

We had already read one or two horror stories on the internet about
how the immigration office, upon later reviewing the form, criticized
incorrect completion, and not only did the Green Card applicants have
to repeat the medical examination, but the process was also further
prolonged. The trick is that the form is placed in an envelope, and
the doctor seals the envelope with a stamp. Only the honorable
immigration office is allowed to open the envelope again.

By the way, not every detection of an illness leads to the Green Card
applicant being disqualified. If it is a curable disease, it must be
proven that the person is healthy again, which, however, means:
paperwork, paperwork, paperwork.

@Z: Lichtbilder

<em>Angelika</em> 
No green card application without photographs. And the green card
photos are subject to the strict regulations of the immigration
authority. The lawyer gave us a typewritten DIN A4 information sheet
with instructions, along with a list of photo shops that are familiar
with the 101 regulations and have experience in implementing them.
Here are some excerpts from the information sheet for your amusement:
Glasses, earrings, and hair clips are taboo. The photo should be 30
mm (1 3/16 inches) long--from the hair to below the chin--and 26 mm
(1 inch) wide--from the right ear to the left cheek. The background
must be white. The photo must not have shadows or be retouched.
Polaroid film #5 is acceptable, but SX-70 film is not. The photo must
show the entire face of the person (3/4 pose). The right ear and left
eye must be visible.

@Z: Affidavit of Support" is already in English. It refers to a legal
document in which an individual pledges financial support for another
person, often used in immigration contexts to demonstrate that the
sponsored individual will not become a public charge.

<em>Angelika</em> 
And no one should become a burden on the American state: the
"Affidavit of Support" (which can best be translated as "sworn
declaration of financial support") is one of my favorite forms in our
Green Card process. You may recall: I received the Green Card because
I am married to Michael. Michael not only had to assure that he could
support me so that I would not be a burden on the American state, but
also that he had sufficient financial means to support both of us: a
highly official matter with a notary and oath.

In the third step, there is also the opportunity to apply for a
provisional work permit ("Employment Authorization Document") until
the actual Green Card application is approved. This is because the
third step typically takes a very long time, and for many applicants,
the time comes when their visa and the associated work permits expire
before the Green Card is processed. The card allows one to work
temporarily as if they had a Green Card. The only catch is that if
you use the work document, you lose your H-1B visa status even if the
visa is still valid. Therefore, we applied for the provisional work
permit (for emergencies) but did not use it.

If you are in the process of "Adjustment of Status," you are not
allowed to leave the USA without special permission from the
immigration authorities. This also applies to travel to Canada and
Mexico. Therefore, it is better to apply for what is known as
"Advance Parole." This can best be translated as provisional release.
It is a travel document that you need to re-enter the country. By the
way, in America, "parole" is also used to refer to when a prisoner is
released on probation from prison. H and L visa holders fall under an
exception: as long as the visas are still valid, entry and exit are
permitted on them.

Not only did the immigration authority burden us with forms, but the
tax office (called the "Internal Revenue Service" in America,
abbreviated as IRS) also insisted on participating in our Green Card
process. The tax authority checks whether we dutifully paid our taxes
in America and submitted a tax return. To do this, we answered
questions on the "IRS Form 9003." The immigration authority then
forwarded the information we provided there to the tax office.

@Z: FingerabdrÃ¼cke

<em>Angelika</em> 
Before one receives the Green Card, the American immigration
authority wants to ensure that the applicant has not committed any
crimes or is listed as a wanted terrorist. Just as one applies for a
certificate of conduct in Germany, fingerprints are taken in America.
For the Green Card, the FBI uses fingerprints to check whether one
has been and is a law-abiding citizen. In practice, it works as
follows: After our lawyer sent the required documents (and a few
more) to the Immigration Office, we patiently waited for the
confirmation of receipt. However, we had to bite the bullet again, as
countless applications flooded the responsible immigration authority
in California, causing delays of weeks in opening the incoming mail
and thus also in sending out the confirmation of receipt. Just so you
believe me: Our documents for the third step were received by the
immigration authority on July 23, 2001, and the confirmation of
receipt was sent out by the authority on September 6, 2001. Weeks
later, we received a letter with the appointment date (November 30,
2001) for taking our fingerprints. Everyone eagerly awaits this
letter because it indicates that one's file is not gathering dust in
a large pile but that something is happening. By the way, the FBI
does not take the fingerprints directly; instead, the immigration
authority sends the applicants to a designated center on-site. The
fingerprinting is done digitally: no annoying ink on the fingers. The
fingerprints appear immediately on the screen and are promptly sent
to the FBI. The FBI works quite efficiently in this regard and sends
the results back to the immigration authority relatively quickly.

After the fingerprint procedure, it's back to waiting. The
immigration office is sometimes not technically stuck in the Stone
Age, as there is the possibility to call and check on the progress of
your case. To do this, you dial into an automated system, listen to
announcements for several minutes, and eventually enter your case
number to finally hear a computer-generated voice. In January 2002,
we heard the voice say that the results of our fingerprint check were
available to the immigration office and that our case was being
processed further. The system sounds brilliant, doesn't it? However,
there's a catch: firstly, the line is constantly busy (you can
usually get through well at 2 a.m.), and the announcement is not
always up to date. We had long since received approval for our Green
Card, yet the announcement was still stuck on the fingerprint stage.

@Z: The surcharge and a stamp in the passport

<em>Angelika</em> 
Anyone who thinks that the immigration office immediately sent us the
actual Green Card is greatly mistaken. That would be far too easy.
First, a notice arrives at your home stating that the application has
been approved. In April 2002, our mail carrier delighted us with the
aforementioned notice. Along with the joyful news, the letter
instructed us to appear at the immigration office in San Francisco
with two brand-new passport photos, our passport, etc. The goal was
to get a stamp in the passport, which serves as a temporary Green
Card and entitles one to work and travel.

On a Tuesday in April, we set out early in the morning, armed with
thick jackets, all necessary documents, and reading material, to join
the line at the immigration office in San Francisco. We had already
heard that there are two lines in San Francisco: one for people with
an appointment (e.g., for an interview) and the other for the
unfortunate souls without one (which is notoriously long).
Unfortunately, there was some confusion about which line we should
join. The immigration office is located in San Francisco's "Financial
District," specifically at the corner of Sansome and Washington
Street--a huge building. To be seen early, we arrive at the INS
building at 6:10 AM. The line for those without an appointment
already winds around the block. No one is standing at the other
entrance, where people with appointments are processed. Dutifully, we
join the line behind about 80 people, grateful for our warm jackets
as the wind is quite brisk around the corner. Naturally, we
immediately ask the people standing in front of and behind us in
line. In front of us is a married couple. He is American, and she is
a foreigner in the process of obtaining a green card through
marriage. They seem like pros to us, as this is not their first time
in line. They assure us that we are in the right line. Behind us is a
software engineer from India, who, like Michael, received the green
card through an American employer, so he is in the same boat as we
are. He is just as uncertain as we are about the line issue.

<pic images/queue2.ps The line at the INS building in San Francisco>

After 10 minutes, I decide to wander over to the other entrance,
hoping to find someone competent who can solve the line puzzle for
us, even though the doors for the general public are still closed
(Did I mention that there are no signs anywhere providing guidance?).
I encounter security personnel standing at the entrance. Patiently, I
explain that the immigration office has approved our I-485 (people
always throw around form abbreviations; it makes it seem like you
know what you're talking about) and that we are here to get our stamp
in our passport. Prompt response: "Do you have an appointment?"
Somewhat desperate reply: "No, not really," because the letter we are
holding does not specify a concrete date or time for our appearance.
Expected response: "Then you have to line up with everyone else!" And
just like that, I'm back in line next to Michael, which is steadily
growing. While we wait patiently, I wonder why no one has thought of
selling coffee and bagels (something like a roll with a hole) to
those waiting. A real market gap. Behind our Indian fellow stands
another Indian compatriot with his family and child--everyone must
appear in person at the INS. Once again, the line problem arises,
someone else wanders to the other entrance, asks the questions I
already asked, and returns with the same answer. Slowly, our
skepticism fades, and we begin to believe that we are indeed in the
right line.

At 6:45 AM, the crowd of people starts to stir. The doors open. About
10 people are allowed into the building at a time. Everyone must show
identification, bags are scanned, and you go through the metal
detector. The line moves at a snail's pace because there is only one
metal detector and one scanning machine. Hooray, at 7:30 AM, we enter
the hallowed halls. The security personnel confiscate Michael's
digital camera (don't worry, he got it back when we left the
building), and we navigate through a maze of barriers, eventually
reaching three counters. We hand our papers to the man behind the
counter. He initially looks a bit confused but then wants to direct
us to the next counter, where there apparently are waiting numbers.
Suddenly, another INS officer (apparently a supervisor) next to him
intervenes and informs him that we could go directly to office 200-B,
as our positive notice is equivalent to an appointment. You can guess
what that means: we had been standing in the wrong line. After a few
quiet sighs, we make our way through the maze of corridors and stand
in front of office door 200-B. It is now 7:50 AM. A sign on the
office door instructs us to drop the letter indicating our
appointment through the designated slot in the door. The only
problem: we don't have a set appointment. By now, many people are
sitting in the waiting area--some with appointments, some
without--and the discussion begins about what those without a fixed
appointment should drop in the slot, because how else will the
responsible officers know that we are waiting outside the door? The
only option is to drop the original (!) of the positive notice we are
holding. However, many are distressed about this because the notice
is the only proof that the immigration office approved the Green Card
application. Naturally, Michael makes silly jokes about a shredder
being behind the slot, destroying all the papers.

Shortly before 8 o'clock, a female officer slips out of one of the
back doors, and although there are signs everywhere with the
inscription "NO QUESTIONS, NO INFORMATION," I bravely approach her to
find out what we are supposed to drop into the slot. At first, she
remains silent, but after I look at her desperately, she shows her
generous side -- the official notice is to be dropped in. At 8
o'clock, the office door opens, and INS officers call the first
people in for interviews, just like in the movie "Green Card." Those
waiting not only have family photo albums ready to prove, for
example, that the marriage to an American citizen truly exists, but
they also usually have a lawyer in tow. If you apply for a Green Card
with the help of an employer, the interview is generally waived, as
was the case with us.

At 8:05, another officer directs all individuals who already have a
positive Green Card notice (including us) to the waiting area of
another counter and begins his work. At 8:30, he calls us up. We hand
over our passports and photos, a fingerprint from a single finger is
taken twice (this time with ink), and we sign a designated form
twice. The fingerprint, signature, and photo will later appear on the
actual Green Card. The officer also confirms our address, to which
the Green Card should be sent, and then we take a seat in the waiting
room again. By the way, it's better not to move until the Green Card
arrives in the mailbox, as the postal service is not allowed to
forward Green Cards. Although there is an option to notify the
immigration authorities of an address change, based on our
experiences, we wouldn't dream of taking that risk--who knows where
the notifications might end up.

At 9:30 AM, another officer calls us. She holds our passports in her
hands, shows us the stamp that serves as a temporary Green Card and
is valid for one year (with the possibility of extension after the
year expires). She also informs us that the actual Green Card will
arrive in six to twelve months. Michael later claims that the red
stamp looks like a potato print, which is true. Our names are
handwritten under the stamp, which is a bit disappointing after all
the waiting. At 9:40 AM, we leave the building beaming with joy and
go for a royal breakfast to celebrate the day before Michael heads to
the office.

@Z: In the same line with the American gentleman

<em>Angelika</em> 
We tested our coveted stamp for the first time when we re-entered the
USA coming from Japan. At the immigration office at the airport,
there are usually two lines: one for American citizens and Green Card
holders, and the other for visa holders and tourists, meaning one
short and one very long line. This time, we lined up with the
Americans and breezed through immigration. Michael initially doubted
our "potato print stamp," but everything went smoothly. The
immigration officer just grumbled about where we got the stamp. We
dutifully replied, "From San Francisco!" And I held back my comment
that it was obvious from the stamp itself, as Michael had strictly
instructed me not to start arguing.

@Z: All's well that ends well.

<em>Angelika</em> 
On July 8th, the moment had finally arrived: Lost in thought, I
opened our mailbox and two letters from the immigration office
greeted me. I already suspected it: The arduous journey of the Green
Card process had finally come to an end. And indeed, I opened the
mail and found our brand-new Green Card plastic cards. Hooray! By the
way, they are sent via regular mail and not by registered mail.

Hard to believe that we already started the formalities for the Green
Card application in July 1999! The process was finally completed in
July 2002. Currently, you have to expect it to take three years,
which is quite average. However, there is a fear that there will soon
be longer waiting times again, because the files are piling up at the
immigration office due to the tightened security measures after
September 11th. In any case, we are very relieved that the paperwork
madness is now over and we can hang around in California a bit freely
and casually. Stay tuned!

The translation of "Michael und Angelika" to English is "Michael and
Angelika.

