
San Francisco, 05-26-2003

<pic images/demo11.ps San Francisco protests>

@Z: Addendum to the Iraq War

<em>Michael</em> 
Now the war is over, but there are still a few things to add:
It was depressing to see how public opinion in America is manipulated
by local TV stations for Joe Sixpack and the nonsense channel CNN. At
times, we really felt like we were in the wrong movie, as half the
city demonstrated against the war and it only received a brief
mention in the evening news. As for the war, all you saw were clean
green-blue flashes in the night sky. CNN also liked to showcase
catalog images of the latest bombers or tanks and elaborated for
hours on how super-fast or super-reliable the technical gadgets were,
instead of reporting on the war events or political backgrounds.

And the military has also learned the Vietnam lesson: Once images of
half-burned, running children come home, the public quickly withdraws
its support. This time, journalists even rode along in the military
tanks, and as expected, they only had good things to report about the
soldiers; unflattering photos were not taken at all.

<pic images/war.ps "Closed because to the dumb war">

<pic images/demo.ps Flyer announcing an anti-war protest>

<em>Angelika</em> 
In San Francisco, everything was turned upside down. After Ari
Fleischer, the now-resigned White House Press Secretary, casually
informed the public with a brief statement on March 19 that the first
bombs had fallen in Iraq, thousands of war opponents took to the
streets in San Francisco the next day. Civil disobedience was the
order of the day. Groups of demonstrators disrupted traffic at major
intersections with sit-ins and human chains, starting at 6 a.m. in
the Financial District. For two days, the city came to a halt.

<pic images/demo2.ps Demo: The Axis of Evil in a Different Way as a Swastika>

<pic images/demo4.ps The alternative mayoral candidate Tom Ammiano speaks.>

On the first day of protests, the police in San Francisco
temporarily arrested 1,300 people. Temporary prisons were set up at
the piers along the Bay. On Market Street, the main traffic artery
through downtown, there was no way through, not even for public
transportation. During the evening rush hour, the demonstrators
eventually tried to get onto the Bay Bridge. The Bay Bridge connects
San Francisco and Oakland, and even on normal days, traffic moves
slowly on it. Pedestrians and cyclists are not allowed on the bridge.

<pic images/demo7.ps Star Wars with George W. and the Chamber of Horrors>

<pic images/demo8.ps Father and son George Bush as Dr. Evil and Mini-Me>

The police, for their part, now formed human chains to block the protesters
from accessing the bridge, fully aware that just a handful of people on the
bridge would be enough to bring traffic to a standstill for hours. This time,
the police prevailed. The activists wanted to disrupt normal life in San
Francisco while innocent civilians in Iraq were facing the consequences of war.
I think there’s something to that argument. Of course, there were also
complaints from frustrated drivers who didn’t find any of it amusing. Our
mayor, Willie Brown, was outraged, pointing out that this kind of civil
disobedience cost the city of San Francisco $400,000 a day due to the increased
police presence. The protesters, however, were unfazed, since that’s the price
of a single Tomahawk missile, thousands of which were being fired daily in
Iraq.

TODO

@Z: Support our Troops

<em>Angelika</em> 
And we observed a distinctly American phenomenon immediately after
the outbreak of the war: As soon as American boys and girls are
fighting, the criticism falls silent. Even the most liberal
commentators of the New York Times, who just a day before were
railing against the war machine, stood behind the fighting troops
("Support our Troops"). Now, it is not clear to me what one has to do
with the other, and I tried to find out from our American friends and
acquaintances what this is all about.

Aside from the somewhat unsatisfactory answer that it would be
unpatriotic, I didn't make much progress with my analyses. The whole
thing is difficult for me to understand because the American army is
a professional army, and everyone knows that American soldiers often
find themselves on the front lines. Anyone who voluntarily joins the
American military knows that sooner or later they will be deployed in
active service.

But the problem is more complex, because the US Army is mainly
composed of marginalized groups, namely America's minorities and the
poor. Many serve in the American military because they have no other
prospects. Here, they receive both financial security and the
opportunity to pursue an education. The wars declared by politicians
at the highest level are ultimately fought by other people's
children. The old guard, consisting of Bush, Rumsfeld, and Ashcroft,
knows war, for example, only from the comfort of their armchairs in
front of the TV (with Secretary of State Colin Powell being an
exception).

Schon

<pic images/demo10.ps Bush as a fraudulent car salesman>

Now I have to admit that blocking intersections was a bit too risky
for Michael and me, because being temporarily arrested isn't ideal
for a Green Card holder at the moment. However, we were there in
person at the first peace demonstration after the outbreak of the
war.

@Z: Criticism of Israel

<pic images/rainbow.ps Rainbow Groceries no longer sells Israeli
products.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Certainly! The German text translates to:

"By the way, I am surprised that the American army is allowed to
mislead the youth on television with sensational commercials (see..."

Please note that the sentence seems to be incomplete, as it ends with
"see" without further context.
<RBLINK>20020324#6</RBLINK>
,

I would strongly advocate for requiring at least fine print at the
end of such commercials, stating something like "Even though this all
looks very great, there is still the possibility that you might end
up dead in a body bag" -- similar to how cigarette manufacturers
nowadays disclose the truth so that no one can sue them later.

At the demonstration, interestingly, the radical left repeatedly
criticized America's support for Israel sharply. And, we could hardly
believe our ears, a few times the speakers praised the fact that an
alternative grocery store called "Rainbow Groceries" had banned all
Israeli products from its shelves in protest. Corresponding bumper
stickers are also becoming more common, such as "Stop Israel's
Apartheid," or similar slogans, but mostly on rather low-quality cars
typically driven by a politically left-leaning group of people. Thus,
the circle between MÃ¶llemann and communism is completed -- only in
America!

@Z: Demolition work on Highway 101

<em>Michael</em> 
It's hardly remembered now, but the "Loma Prieta" earthquake fourteen
years ago caused parts of a highway that then ran halfway through San
Francisco to collapse. At that time, Highway 101 led into the city,
but the structures supported by thick concrete pillars could not
withstand the forces of nature. Bam! As soon as the highway became
impassable, residents began to ask themselves: Hey, do we even need
it? This sparked a heated debate between frustrated commuters, who
had to take side streets, and the city residents.

<pic images/highway2.ps Abriss>

To put it briefly, the dispute lasted fourteen years. For that long,
semi-derelict highway structures stood around in San Francisco. What
remained was a completely confusing and asymmetrical expressway
network, where once you took an exit, you couldn't get back on
because the corresponding entrance was missing. Or vice versa. Now
the city has decided to tear down the highway remnants and not
rebuild them; instead, palm trees are to be planted. This calls for
creativity in navigation and intensive studying of city maps if you
want to get ahead!

@Z: San Francisco Views: SoMa

<pic images/somamaps.ps The "SoMa" on the city map of San Francisco>

<em>Michael</em> 
Every year, millions of tourists come to San Francisco, amusingly
always visiting the same attractions: they go to Fisherman's Wharf,
eat a hollowed-out bread bowl filled with clam chowder, and get
startled by the homeless man who, for years, has been scaring people
as they pass by from behind a...
<LINK>http://www.anvari.org/photos/200305c/Bush_Man_4.html|The phrase
"Busch hervorspringt" translates to "bush jumps out" in
English.</LINK>
.

Then they take a look at the seals in front of the Wharf and head
over to Alcatraz, if there are still tickets available. With the
Cable Car, they go back to Union Square, where all the department
stores are located. They buy a pair of Levi's jeans in the store on
Powell, where the salespeople now even speak German, and stroll into
the Virgin MegaStore to purchase a CD that would actually be cheaper
in Germany. Finally, they squeeze into the Hard Rock Cafe to add a
"Hard Rock Cafe San Francisco" shirt to their T-shirt collection at
home. That's all well and good, but it's far from everything San
Francisco has to offer.

<pic images/ladder.ps The translation of "GerÃ¼st im
SoMa/Hafenviertel" to English is "Scaffolding in the SoMa/Harbor
District.>

<pic images/soma2.ps The translation to English is "Warehouse
SoMa/Harbor District.>

As a tourist, you naturally don't have the time, perspective, or
coolness to explore the more quirky neighborhoods -- and that's why,
starting today, the newsletter is introducing the new series "San
Francisco Views," in which the intrepid reporters fearlessly comb
through the lesser-known districts and present some unusual
perspectives of this fascinating city.

Today: "South of Market," the neighborhood south of Market Street --
or SoMa, as it's recently called. However, just to reiterate: Don't
get the idea of calling San Francisco "Frisco" -- it's so frowned
upon that if someone tells me they've driven into "Frisco," I
innocently ask for an explanation of what they mean by that.

<pic images/soma10.ps SoMa: Trash can on Howard Street>

<pic images/soma8.ps SoMa: Auto Repair Shop>

The SoMa is a warehouse district with some medium-sized industry and
borders a harbor area and the somewhat more residential "Potrero
Hill." Wandering around on foot in SoMa can be a bit tiring because
the cross-street distances are much larger than in the downtown area.
However, it's incredibly fun to ride a bike around the flat district,
especially in the evening of a sunny day, as the light is incredibly
beautiful then.

<pic images/soma6.ps SoMa: Homeless person sleeps in the entrance.>

<pic images/soma7.ps SoMa: Advertising and Street Cleaning Signs>

I'm not entirely sure what fascinates me so much about these run-down
low-wage joints. These unadorned industrial buildings seem to remind
me of something--probably the fact that I often worked as a laborer
in such companies during my school days. Or perhaps they remind me of
Bukowski's stories, where he got by as a dockworker and
slaughterhouse worker.

During the dot-com boom of the late nineties, it was incredibly
trendy to live in SoMa. Yuppies rented lofts, which were factories
converted into apartments. Alongside the yuppies came fancy shops and
excellent, albeit expensive, restaurants. However, since questionable
crowds also tended to hang around in SoMa, the shops usually closed
at nightfall and let down heavy iron grates.

<pic images/bud.ps Bierwerbung hinter Betonwand" translates to "beer
advertisement behind concrete wall" in English.>

<pic images/soma9.ps SoMa: Shards of glass from a smashed car window>

The restaurants and bars struggled with the problem that the large
limousines, which the yuppies arrived in, were sometimes damaged or
maliciously scratched. It was once reported that two petty criminals
posed as valet parkers.
<RBLINK>990603#7</RBLINK>


With the collapse of the dot-com economy, the yuppie crowd
disappeared, and many of the restaurants and shops had to close down.
But a few held on, here are two insider tips: the "Southpark Cafe"
and "Bizou," both French restaurants in SoMa, a bit pricey, but
really good.

<pic images/soma5.ps SoMa: Closed Auto Repair Shop>

<pic images/pflaster.ps SoMa: In Winter When It Rains>

The architecture in SoMa is incredibly ugly -- a comparable
neighborhood in Germany would have no appeal to me. However, in San
Francisco, even the plainest industrial design is charming when the
sun shines. And it's only the untidiness, the makeshift nature, and
the latent criminality that make SoMa attractive -- for those who
like it.

The SoMa is my second favorite neighborhood, only surpassed by the
"Mission," the Mexican neighborhood around the corner from us. But
we'll save that for a new episode of "San Francisco Views." Until
then, I'll give you the homework of studying the many distinctive
street names and their origins.
<LINK>http://www.geocities.com/jdcjr/SFStreets.html|The translation
of "San Francisco Street Names" to English is "San Francisco Street
Names." The phrase is already in English.</LINK>
The text appears to be in German, but there are some encoding issues.
Assuming the intended text is "stehen sie schÃ¶n zusammengefasst. Bis
zum nÃ¤chsten Mal!", the translation to English would be: "They are
nicely summarized. Until next time!

<pic images/sunset.ps Construction site SoMa near Pacbell Stadium>

<pic images/somaview.ps Panorama in SoMa>

@Z: Learn to speak English with the pros.

<em>Michael</em> 
The translation of the text is:

"What is the name of the flatulence-like sound that is produced by
sticking the tongue out a little from a slightly open mouth while
simultaneously releasing turbulent air? It is undoubtedly an
international gesture that mostly means 'I don't like it, but there's
nothing I can do about it' or also stands for 'You can kiss my ass.'
However, as far as I know, there is no German word for it. In
English, however, there are two expressions: 'Bronx Cheer' and
'Raspberry.'

The "Bronx Cheer" (a celebratory gesture from the New York Bronx)
undoubtedly comes from the working-class fans of the New York Yankees
(a baseball team from New York City), who apparently produced the
sound en masse during the surely boring baseball games (as reported
by the newsletter).

But "raspberry" is the English word for "Himbeere" (raspberry). What
does that have to do with the derogatory gesture just mentioned?
Well, my dear friends, it pays off to receive a daily email from the
so-called "Wordsmith," like I do, with a rarely used word from
Webster's Dictionary, along with its origin and meaning. Recently,
"raspberry" was featured, and it was explained that it is an old
British slang term.

It comes from the fact that "Raspberry Tart" rhymes with "Fart," but
the English ladies and gentlemen did not like to use the latter,
indecent word. As a kind of secret language, they chose "Raspberry"
for the similar-sounding tongue noise. Furthermore, as the
"Wordsmith" explained, in England, instead of "look," people also
like to say "butcher's." Why? Because "butcher's hook" rhymes with
"look." Therefore, "Can you take a butcher's?" is understandable
British English, although such expressions would likely only cause
raised eyebrows in America.

By the way, if you want to receive a daily email from Wordsmith, you
can sign up at
<LINK>http://wordsmith.org/awad/index.html|wordsmith.org</LINK>
The translation to English is: "Sign up. It doesn't cost anything,
but you always get smarter from it and eventually can speak English
in a way that would leave any high school teacher stumped.

@Z: Hogan's Heroes" is already in English. It is the title of an
American television sitcom that aired from 1965 to 1971. The show is
set in a German prisoner of war camp during World War II and follows
the antics of Colonel Hogan and his fellow prisoners as they carry
out espionage and sabotage missions against the Nazis.

<pic images/hogan9.ps The television series "Hogan's Heroes>

<em>Michael</em> 
Recently, an American colleague told me that as a little boy, he
always watched "Hogan's Heroes" on TV, a popular and funny early
evening series about a group of international soldiers in a German
prisoner-of-war camp during World War II. For research purposes, I
programmed it into the TiVo--and promptly, the 1960s series was
repeated on some obscure channel at an ungodly hour and successfully
recorded. The episodes are hilarious!

<pic images/hogan6.ps Hogan and his friends are devising a plan.>

The Germans speak English with a terrible accent, are all extremely
obedient to authority, and are incredibly stupid. The prisoners, on
the other hand--English, French, and Americans, led by the American
Colonel Hogan--secretly run the camp. They have secret tunnels to the
outside, radio equipment, steal tanks, and don't escape only so they
can continue to spy and pull strings in secret.

<pic images/hogan4.ps Kommandant Klink was tricked again.>

The German camp commandant Klink (played by a recently deceased
German named Werner Klemperer) and the good-natured but simple-minded
Sergeant Schultz often act busy, but ultimately they have given up
against the cunning prisoners and grant them unusual freedoms. This
way, if a car with swastika flags and a pompous SS officer arrives,
they can rely on the camp appearing exemplary.

<pic images/hogan1.ps The translation of "Amerikanische FliegermÃ¼tze
Ã¼ber deutscher Pickelhaube" to English is "American aviator cap over
German pickelhaube.>

The typically American historical mix-up is, of course, hilarious:
Pickelhaube helmets were no longer around in the Second World War,
and there were probably hardly any commanders like Klink who wore a
monocle. But, hey, if it's supposed to be German, then go all out;
all that's missing is Oktoberfest!

@Z: Topgetränk

<pic images/icetea.ps The "Hard Ice Tea" from Bison>

<em>Michael</em> 
When you're looking for European groceries in San Francisco or the
Bay Area in general, you go to "Trader Joe's," an almost alternative
supermarket chain where lots of happy people stand behind the
registers, and sometimes the shoppers even help pack their own
groceries--unheard of! In any case, the store has many things that
are hardly available elsewhere in America: good German (Cambozola),
English (Stilton), or French (Roquefort) cheese, excellent beer
(Mendocino Brewing Company, SLO Brewery, Dutch Grolsch, and I even
spotted Weihenstephaner recently), and unsweetened, whole fruit
juices.

In the party scene, it has somehow become common in recent years for
more and more sugary drinks for adults to flood the market. These
drinks have an alcohol content similar to beer but also delight the
taste buds of the fairer sex: for example, "Mike's Hard Lemonade,"
which tastes quite good, like lemon soda with vodka. As a newcomer on
the shelf, I recently noticed "Hard Ice Tea" by the company Bison in
the flavor "Peach Rooibos" at the "Trader." "Rooibos" is a very
popular reddish tea-like drink from South Africa, which tastes
somewhat rougher than conventional black tea, and when mixed with
alcohol, it develops such an incredibly delicious aftertaste that you
could drink bottle after bottle. Top product!

@Z: The phrase "BeschÃ¶nigende Begriffe" translates to "euphemistic
terms" in English.

<em>Angelika</em> 
I am always fascinated by the ingenuity of Americans when it comes to
expressing things concisely or vividly and clearly depicting
situations that can only be described in a roundabout way in German.
Here, one might recall the Iraq War, during which many euphemisms
were used. For example, the military strategy of the bombing campaign
on Baghdad was described as "shock and awe," and the countries that
uncritically aligned themselves with Bush were referred to as the
"coalition of the willing.

The American truly excels when it comes to inventing acronyms that
make sense on their own, making them easier to remember and
visualize. A particularly popular area of application is laws or
other bureaucratic documents. At the end of this year, a new system
called USVISIT (US Visitor and Immigration Status Indication
Technology System) will be tested at airports and ports. This
involves border authorities collecting biometric data from tourists,
businesspeople, and students (USVISIT = US visit) upon their entry
into the USA and later recording the time of their departure.

The abbreviation TIPS (Terrorism Information and Prevention System)
for the heavily criticized and therefore ultimately shelved
Stasi-like surveillance system (where the mail carrier, the gas meter
reader, and the neighbor were supposed to snoop around on behalf of
the government) for combating terrorism in America is not to be
underestimated.

And since I'm currently talking about linguistic curiosities, I must
not forget to highlight the American fascination with spelling words.
This may initially be due to the fact that there is a subject called
"Spelling" in school. But the spelling competitions held at local and
national levels certainly also contribute to its popularity.

Spelling Bees" are what these competitions are called here, where
students of all ages compete against each other and have to spell the
craziest words. A judge provides a word, and the student then spells
it out from memory. Writing down the word is, of course, forbidden.
The poor children are bombarded with words that even adult English
speakers do not know. Last year, someone won the national competition
by correctly breaking down the word "prospicience," which I couldn't
even find in my best dictionary, into individual letters. In 2001, it
was "succedaneum," whatever that may mean.

Funnily enough, spelling is sometimes used as a secret language
between parents, caregivers, and teachers when present children, who
cannot yet read, are not supposed to understand what is being
discussed: S-E-X is always spelled out in prudish America, as is
B-U-L-L-S-H-I-T (big nonsense/rubbish). Some people, however, spell
so quickly that even I, who never went through rigorous spelling
training, sometimes get confused!

@Z: Water-Fountains

<pic images/foun1.ps The translation of "LÃ¤ssiges AbhÃ¤ngen am
Trinkwasserbrunnen" to English is "Casual hanging out at the drinking
water fountain.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
For a long time, I have wanted to write about the American "water
fountains" that are found on every corner here. These small drinking
water fountains, also known as "drinking fountains," actually look
like elevated bird baths. The difference is that you don't drink the
water from a stagnant basin; instead, you press a small button on the
side, which causes the water to spout upwards from a tap, allowing
you to catch it with your mouth.

Drinking water fountains are located in America wherever there are
many people who might suddenly become thirsty: in schools,
universities, offices, parks, and sports facilities.

Drinking properly from a water fountain is not that easy and requires
years of practice -- Europeans who did not grow up with it generally
struggle with it at first.

<pic images/foun2.ps The translation of "Eine 'Water Fountain'" to
English is "A 'Water Fountain'".>

For hygienic reasons, you should not touch the faucet with your
mouth. Instead, gently start the water flowing by pressing a button
and then carefully bring your mouth close to the saddle point of the
rather wide, calm stream. Easier said than done: What every American
child manages to do immediately through early and varied practice, I
still haven't mastered even after six and a half years.

Even from a political perspective, drinking water fountains have
quite a history. In the southern states of America, Black people were
not allowed to use the drinking fountains designated for white
people. There were "drinking fountains" for Black people and others
for white people. The civil rights movement addressed this injustice
in the 1950s and 1960s. And one thing that surely only exists in
dog-loving San Francisco should be mentioned here: even Fido is taken
care of in hot weather. He has his own, lower drinking fountain.
However, he can't operate it by himself yet, as his owner has to
press the button for him to make the water flow. You can see it live
in Dolores Park in San Francisco!

The translation of "Eure 'Frisco' Kids" to English is "Your 'Frisco'
Kids.

The translation of "Angelika und Michael" to English is "Angelika and
Michael.

