San Francisco, 08-01-2003

@Z: Traffic lights in the space age

<pic images/ampel.ps The traffic light counts the seconds: 5, 4, 3 ...>

<em>Michael</em> 
Anyone who has been to America knows that the traffic lights work
differently there than in Germany: Firstly, there is no yellow phase
for drivers when the light changes from red to green. It just goes
"bam!" and this is probably due to the many cars with automatic
transmissions: No one needs to engage a gear to start driving.

Before the traffic light switches back to red at the end of the green
phase, there is, of course, a second of yellow so that you can brake
in time. This is crucial: as soon as the light in one direction turns red, the one in
the cross direction is already green! There is no grace period like
in Germany -- if you try to rush through on red, it's not uncommon
for the first vehicle coming from the side to crash into your side
door.

However, Americans are notoriously bad drivers, and many of them talk
on the phone, fiddle with the car radio, or drink coffee, and you
often see completely absent-minded ghost drivers rushing through
red lights. We've really gotten into the habit of driving off very cautiously
when the light turns green and peeking into the side street to see if
approaching cars are actually stopping.

The lack of a grace period also affects pedestrians: They have to be
extremely careful to make it to the other side before the pedestrian
light switches from "Walk" to "Stop" -- because then the cars
immediately (!) get a green light. To give an approximate estimate on time remaining,
an electric hand typically starts blinking at a point when a sporty
runner can just barely make it to the other side. Older people
usually stop then, while we young folks switch to 100-meter sprint
mode.

Of course, the blinking doesn't always help, because each
intersection has different settings. You have to rely on the traffic
light technician who measured it at some point. That's why now there's
something new now: traffic lights with large digital displays that
count down the number of seconds until "Stop" appears. Brilliant!

Not only pedestrians love the new technology, but also drivers
speeding by in the same direction, who can now peek over and read the
exact number of seconds before their traffic light turns "yellow"!
This often makes decisions easier, such as "Should I quickly change
lanes to overtake the slowpoke in front of me, or can I still make it
through behind them?" A year ago, these super traffic lights were
only found sporadically at very large intersections in San Francisco,
but now they are popping up everywhere, and everyone is thrilled.
Bravo, San Francisco!

@Z: California Gun Laws

<pic images/hg.ps Popular gun magazine: "Handgunner>

<em>Michael</em> 
Contrary to the prevailing opinion in Germany, not all Americans walk
around with a loaded revolver in their belt or shoot into the air
from car windows after exciting sports events. No, gun ownership and
use are strictly regulated.
We have already touched on the theory of American gun laws
(<RBLINK>20010117#1</RBLINK>). Today,
let's go over what that looks like in everyday life in California.

This is by no means trivial, because gun regulations vary greatly from state
to state, are subject to constant changes by the legislature, and are
then interpreted very inconsistently by the courts. So: Don't sue the
newsletter editorial team if something isn't exactly correct, but
rather, in case of doubt, hire a legal bloodsucker of your choice and
ask for professional advice!

California distinguishes between two gun regulations: One determines
when a weapon can be carried concealed (Concealed Gun Law, CGL), and
the other pertains to loaded weapons (Loaded Gun Law, LGL). The
courts apply both laws strictly separately: For example, someone
who walks into a government building with a loaded revolver in their
coat will face penalties twice: once for carrying a conceiled weapon,
and secondly for bringing a loaded gun.
In the legal sense, "loaded"
means that the ammunition is in the weapon: it is sufficient for the
magazine to be inserted in the pistol; it does not matter whether the
weapon is cocked or the safety is off.

<pic images/rebate.ps Advertisement: This gun is on special offer, save 40 dollars!>

Almost no one is allowed to walk around in a California city with a
weapon concealed under their clothing -- not even if it is unloaded.
Anyone caught doing so (and not falling under the exceptions
described below) commits a crime that is punishable by a fine or
imprisonment. Exception: A so-called CCW (Carry Concealed Weapons)
permit, which is only issued by the sheriff of the respective county
if someone proves that they need the weapon for professional reasons
(for example, a bounty hunter chasing escaped criminals) or is
otherwise seriously threatened. Typically, these CCWs are only issued
in rural areas, and the cities almost always reject applications.

Another exception: In their own home, any ordinary citizen is allowed
to hide a loaded firearm. However, this does not apply to those with
a criminal record, illegal immigrants, those dishonorably discharged
from the military, and the like. By the way, "home" also includes
one's own garden, a rented motel room, or a campsite. Store owners
(only the owners, not the employees) are also allowed to have a
loaded weapon in their store. As a small legal peculiarity, one is
not allowed to walk around with a weapon concealed under clothing in
their own driveway. The weapon may be hidden in the "home," but not
"on" the person.

U.S. citizens who are at least 18 years old are allowed to transport
firearms by car, provided the latter are unloaded and stored in a locked
container (not in the glove compartment!). Those who reside in the
U.S. but do not hold U.S. citizenship may only transport firearms in
a car on a direct route between locations with special exemptions
(for example, from home to a shooting club where they are a member,
or from the gun dealer where the firearm was purchased to their own home
or office).

<pic images/uhose.ps Advertisement: The Ballermann in the Underpants>

Now, let's assume a store owner has a loaded gun in a drawer at the store. If he
drives home in the evening and wants to take the gun with him, he
must remove the magazine with the rounds and place the gun in a
portable, lockable box and lock it. When transporting both ammo and gun in the car, he
must either carry the magazine with the rounds openly (otherwise it
would be a violation of the "Concealed Gun Law," as the magazine is
part of the weapon) or remove the rounds and lock the magazine in
the box as well. Once home, the store owner is allowed to take the
gun from the car into the house and load it there. However, he must
ensure that his children cannot access it.

An unloaded firearm can, amusingly enough, be carried openly almost
everywhere. One could easily march through downtown San Francisco
with a Colt in an (open) cowboy holster--except in weapon-free zones
like government buildings, schools, or airports. (Editor's note: This
was the situation in 2003; since January 1, 2012, this is no longer
the case. Governor Jerry Brown signed a law in October 2011 that
equates carrying unloaded weapons with loaded ones.) However, if the
weapon is loaded, you are not allowed to take it outside,
even if you carry it openly. Rifles are not covered under the CGL, as
they are very difficult to conceal under clothing, but they are
covered under the LGL: No one is allowed to stand on the street with
a loaded rifle.

Anyone openly carrying a weapon can be checked by the police at any
time. Searches are usually prohibited for police officers in the USA -- if
someone hasn't done anything wrong, no one is allowed to even ask for
their ID. "Routine checks" like in Germany would be illegal. However,
if a police officer sees someone carrying a weapon, they are allowed
to check and ensure that it is not loaded.

<pic images/gun.ps How to own a firearm and not go to jail>

What to do with the gun? You are allowed to defend your home,
yourself, and other people against villains. It is important to note
that there is no obligation to retreat if a confrontation could be
avoided by doing so. However, you are only allowed to shoot if there
is an immediate threat to the life and limb of individuals from the
villain. If a thief is escaping through the window with your TV under
their arm, it would be a crime to shoot after them. However, if the
thief is attacking with a baseball bat, you are allowed to shoot.

The rules are very complicated and require precise legal abstraction
to determine which regulation applies in which case. Hardly any
resident of California (except perhaps the police and professional
gun dealers) knows these rules exactly. I bought the now out-of-print
book "How to Own a Gun in California and Stay Out of Jail" by John
Machtinger, who compiled all the important facts back in 1999. It's very
well and precisely written.

For our illustratinos in the newsletter, I specifically bought two gun
magazines from our local newsagent around the corner. To my
astonishment, the tiny shop had a whopping ten different gun magazines.
The owner told me that he doesn't sell many in this neighborhood, and
he always puts them on the top shelf so that small children can't
reach them. He probably thinks I'm a gun enthusiast now, but I'll
have to live with that.

@Z: California Governor Recall

<pic images/davis.ps News: Governor Gray Davis is being called back.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
After California struggled with various power outages due to the
energy crisis (as we've reported), the bursting of the internet bubble
with company closures and rising unemployment, the state now faces a budget
deficit of 38 billion dollars and discontent is spreading among the
population. Just as the Germans complain about Schr√∂der and company,
many Californians are angered by Gray Davis, the Democratic governor
of California, who was re-elected at the end of 2002.

Although the energy crisis is partly attributed to Republican
Governor Pete Wilson (who served before Gray Davis) and Davis did not
cause the generally poor American economic situation, he serves as a
scapegoat for most Californians. This may also be due to the fact
that Davis appears rather colorless and stiff, and he fails to
connect with the public. However, democracy means that once elected,
a person serves a full term, and those dissatisfied with Davis
can express their discontent in the next election. Far from it: In
California (and also in other American states), there is the
possibility of a so-called recall: Voters can remove a politician
from office before the end of their term. Originally included in the
California constitution in 1911 to deal with corrupt politicians, the
recall initiative is now causing a complete circus in California. In
Germany, you are probably scratching your heads: "Recall - never
heard of it!" Let me try to explain what it's all about.

<pic images/davis2.ps Protesters against Gray Davis>

To initiate a recall, a certain number of signatures from
California voters who support the recall must be collected. In
California, this amounts to 12% of all votes cast in the last
statewide election, which is 897,158 signatures. Compared to other
states, this is extremely low; most other states that allow recall
procedures require a hefty 25%.

So in the past months and weeks, we frequently encountered signature
collectors on our way to the supermarket or the subway. In San
Francisco, however, only a few support the recall initiative, as
estimates suggest that the special election will cost the already
struggling state a hefty 30 million dollars. As a result, other
groups are simultaneously collecting signatures in favor of Davis
staying in office.
Alas, signatures for and against the "recall" are not offset against
each other. By a certain deadline, the signatures must then be submitted
for verification, which happened last week. Under the leadership of
the Republican but considered untrustworthy politician Darrell
Issa--who was arrested twice by the police some time ago on suspicion
of car theft--far more than the necessary 1.3 million valid
signatures were collected.

Issa financed the "recall" signature collection with 1.5 million
dollars. Because in America, nothing happens without money. The
election date has already been set. On October 7, voters will decide
whether Davis stays or goes, and at the same time, they will choose
their preferred new governor from a list of candidates. It seems
somewhat crazy to me that a voter is allowed to vote for a candidate
even if they are against Davis's recall.

Every Tom, Dick, and Harry, regardless of their party, can run for
office. Only Gray Davis draws the short straw. He is not allowed to
run. To participate in the governor's race, one only needs to be an
American citizen, pay a $3,500 administrative fee, and present 65
valid signatures from supporters. If the candidate doesn't have the
$3,500 on hand, the 65 signatures increase to 10,000. You can
probably imagine that this means every fool wants to "join in." The
danger of this special election is that, in addition to a likely low
voter turnout, a completely inexperienced person could become
governor, as a simple majority is enough to win, which in practice
means that one can win with very few votes.

It currently seems certain that the aforementioned Darrell Issa wants
to be involved. But the Republican businessman Bill Simon, who lost
to Davis in the last election, also senses his chance. And the rumor
mill is buzzing that the film star Arnold Schwarzenegger, known as
the muscleman, who is also a member of the Republican Party and a
native Austrian with an American passport, might run. As absurd as
that sounds, it is by no means far-fetched. In television news polls,
perfectly normal-looking Californians admit they are willing to lend
their vote to the "Terminator." Arnie is keeping a low profile at the
moment, and the press speculates that his wife Maria Shriver, a
Democrat who is also part of the Kennedy clan, is advising against
it. I tell you, if I have to endure "I'll be back"-Arnold alongside
Cowboy Bush, I'll go crazy.

@Z: Topprodukt

<pic images/sticker.ps Funny clothing stickers>

<em>Michael</em> 
Surely, you've also stared at a label in a piece of clothing before:
"Ooh, Giorgio Armani...," wondering what it might have cost. "Ah,
Prada!" The sweater may look like it's from a thrift store, but hey,
it was surely expensive! Recently, in a magic shop in Las Vegas, I
discovered something to put an end to this nonsense: sew-in labels
with fabricated nonsense on them. One says "100% Pure Shit," another
"100% Cow Dung." And I immediately sewed it by hand into the faux fur
sweater that I've been wearing every day for years. It's just
difficult to show the label to someone, but hey, humor comes from
within...

@Z: How much longer?

<pic images/bags.ps 500 garbage bags -- they lasted 6.5 years>

<em>Michael</em> 
Over the years, I've often talked about my obsession with shopping at
my favorite supermarket, "Costco." However, only long-time regular
readers with an elephant's memory would know that six and a half
years ago, 
<LINK>http://usarundbrief.com/0/images/costco.html|one of my first actions</LINK>
in San Francisco was buying a
500-pack of trash bags there (<RBLINK>961215#2</RBLINK>).
Click the link and look at the photo: In front of the Sharp TV set, which was also newly
purchased at the time and has long since stopped working, and to the
left of the Corona beer crate, which lasted even shorter, you can
see a pack of 500 garbage bags from the company Kirkland. Why am I
writing this? A few days ago, we used the last one. However, this is
not because we produced extremely little waste, but rather because in
the USA, you always get inundated with plastic bags at the
supermarket, which you then use for trash, so you hardly use any
garbage bags you bought yourself. Now I'm faced with the question:
Should I buy another 500-pack, will we stay another 6.5 years?

@Z: The Ailing Retirement System

TODO

<em>Michael</em> 
In contrast to the Germans, who to my considerable surprise still
like to dream of a state pension, the Americans have already grasped
the truth, and no one under the age of 35 today, who earns decent
money and is reasonably sane, expects any significant pension
payments from the state.

I don't know exactly what kind of fantasy mathematics German
politicians base their calculations on, but let's try a very simple
calculation: While today in the USA, 15 workers pay for the pension
of one retiree, in 40 years it will only be two. In Germany, the
problem will be even more severe due to the much lower proportion of
foreigners. This cannot work. Anyone who retires in 40 years will
have to be able to support themselves with privately (!) saved funds.
The brutal truth is that no one will give up 50% of their salary to
us greedy retirees. The generational contract is dead, dead, dead.

<pic images/oma.ps Oma Meume has to earn her pension by playing in
the game show.>

In contrast to Germany, where the so-called Riester pension does not
find much appeal, the American equivalent, the so-called 401(k) plan,
is practically a given for anyone who does not intend to sleep in a
cardboard box under a bridge in old age. The funny name is derived
from tax code number 401, section (k).

Typically, employers offer a 401(k) plan for middle to higher-paying
jobs. In this plan, the employee automatically deducts a certain
amount from their gross salary (tax-free!) each month, which is then
transferred to private investment companies like Fidelity
(www.401k.com). The employee usually has the option to invest the
money with varying levels of risk: money market funds (similar in
safety to fixed deposits), bonds, or stock funds. However, sometimes
only the employer's stocks are available for purchase, which isn't as
ideal.

Even though the money is held by private companies like Fidelity, it
is subject to the legal regulations for 401k plans. The money grows
tax-free because any bond interest and stock fund gains are not
taxed. You can manage the account as you wish and move the virtual
money -- typically via the internet -- between different types of
investments.

When you change employers, you set up a new 401k plan there and
maintain it in addition to the old one. A maximum of $12,000 per year
can be contributed to the 401k plan, and starting in 2006, this will
increase to $15,000. When you are 59, you are allowed to start
withdrawing money from your bundle -- however, every cent of it must
then be taxed according to your income for that year.

Typically, as an elderly person, you need less money, which is why
the tax rate is lower than during your working life. If you go to a
financial advisor, they usually calculate how much money you need to
deposit monthly and when you can stop working so that the money lasts
until the average life expectancy, assuming a positive stock market
development, say 10% per year. If you live longer or the stock market
crashes, you might end up under a bridge.

Due to the stock market crash of 2000 and the ongoing poor investment
climate, the 401k investments of many Americans went in the wrong
direction: Instead of the required 10% growth per year, the
retirement accounts of those who had invested their pensions in
so-called "Aggressive Funds" particularly plummeted. At the same
time, many also ran out of household money, which led quite a few to
prematurely cash out their bundles, accepting the immediate taxation
and a penalty fee.

A good employer supports the retirement provision of their employees
with contributions of up to 50% on the payments, up to 6% of the
salary -- that is free money, and on top of that, it is also
tax-free, as the table in...
<RBLINK>991120#2</RBLINK>
The phrase "zeigt, ganz sch√É¬∂n reinhaut" can be translated to English
as "shows that it really packs a punch.
<LINK>http://www.401k.com/401k/about/about.htm|401k-Webseite</LINK>
branches out into all sorts of 401k intricacies

Apart from the 401k plan, there are other retirement options, such as
the "Roth IRA," named after a senator named William V. Roth, who
strongly advocated for this plan. The Roth IRA can indeed be
maintained alongside the 401k. You can contribute up to $3,000 of
already taxed money annually to the plan, but you won't have to pay
any taxes on interest, stock gains, or withdrawals in retirement.
However, high earners who make $110,000 individually or $160,000 as a
couple per year are excluded from the Roth IRA.
http://www.fairmark.com/rothira/roth101.htm
The exact regulations are very complicated, and like all tax laws,
can only be understood if you read thick tomes and regularly
internalize the latest changes.

And, as always in the USA, there is no equality: Upper and
middle-class individuals typically have a 401(k) plan and/or a Roth
IRA, while those who earn less need everything for living expenses
and cannot save for retirement. They rely on the government
retirement safety net, "Social Security," into which both employers
and employees contribute 6.2 percent of their gross salary, up to a
maximum limit of $87,000 in annual salary (as of 2003). However, one
can already calculate the insolvency date of this insurance: 2032.

An interesting twist arises from the population distribution in the
age pyramid: In 30 years, it will mainly be foreign immigrants,
especially from Latin American countries, who will contribute to the
pension system and thus finance the pensions of a predominantly white
population group -- racial conflicts are inevitable.

@Z: The American school system

<pic images/school.ps Caution, school!>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Vacation time in Germany: How fitting to write something about the
American school system. Everyone thinks they know it from American TV
shows. But do you also believe that private schools dominate in
America? Wrong, only 11% of American students attended a private
school in 2002 - at least according to the statistics from the
"National Center for Education Statistics.

Private schools charge tuition fees--between 200 and 1000 dollars per
child per month. Public schools, on the other hand, are free of
charge. Approximately 80% of private schools are run by churches and
other religious organizations. While religious education is not
allowed in the curriculum of public American schools (due to the
separation of church and state), it is an integral part of
religiously affiliated private schools.

The idea of free education for all is fundamentally American. The aim
was to ensure that the still young nation with few commonalities
would grow together more quickly, which especially benefited the
immigrant children of the large waves of immigration between 1890 and
1930.

As in other areas in America, the government plays only a subordinate
role in the education system. For example, there is no nationally
standardized curriculum, which does not mean that every American
school teaches in its own way. There are certain subjects that every
American student struggles with to some extent, regardless of whether
they live in Hawaii or Alaska: mathematics, English (writing,
reading, grammar, literature), science, geography, history, social
studies, art, and music.

<pic images/edison1.ps A privatized public school>

On the other hand, learning a foreign language over a certain number
of years, as it is known in Germany,
<em>nicht</em> 
Obligation. Many American students only start learning a foreign
language in high school (usually 9th to 12th grade). Interestingly,
Americans often believe that learning a foreign language, such as
German, for two years is sufficient to use it well. I frequently meet
people who boast that they speak German because it was part of their
"high school" curriculum for two years. However, you don't hear much
more than phrases from them.

Even though the state does not take on a central role, it does not
completely stay out of it. The legislative initiative "No Child Left
Behind," which President Bush signed into law in early 2002, is a
good example of this type of involvement. The law aims, broadly
speaking, to achieve higher standards in public schools through
increased student testing, hiring of qualified teachers, quality
controls at individual schools, and so on.

In general, the authority over schools in America lies with the
individual states (similar to the federal states in Germany). The
states are divided into individual entities known as school
districts. These school districts have significant influence because
the control of public schools is intended to remain as local as
possible. The school district is managed by the school board, which
consists of elected citizens. Private schools must also follow
certain guidelines set by the individual state, but they have more
freedoms than public schools, for example, in their selection of
students. In addition to private and public schools, there is the
option to educate children at home, a method that is gaining
popularity in America, known as "home schooling." Honestly, I'm not
sure if that's really "the best thing since sliced bread.

The funding of public schools is provided through tax money, with the
lion's share being contributed by the state, cities, and counties
(about 90%), while the federal government only adds the remaining
10%. Generally, the property tax that Americans pay when they own a
house goes directly to local schools. And this is where the problem
begins: If you live in an upscale neighborhood where houses and
properties are expensive, you pay a lot of taxes, and the schools in
the area receive a lot of money. If you are unfortunate enough to
grow up in a poorer area, the schools there are left with little
funding. There is no talk of equal opportunities.

Now, you're probably eager to know how the American school system is
structured. Typically, boys and girls attend school for 12 years,
whether it's a public or private school, or even at home with "home
schooling" by mom and dad. The compulsory schooling age varies
slightly across different states: in 30 states, compulsory education
ends at 16 years old, in nine states at 17 years old, and in the
remaining 11 states at 18 years old. At six years old (with slight
variations from state to state), an American child is enrolled in
"Elementary School" (comparable to the German Grundschule).

In contrast to the German "Kindergarten," when an American speaks of
"kindergarten," they mean the year.
<em>unmittelbar</em> 
Before starting school. In most states, kindergarten is not yet
mandatory, including in California. However, since kindergarten
involves the initial learning of letters and numbers and is generally
quite structured (there are homework assignments!), almost all
children attend a "kindergarten." Kindergartens are usually located
within the "Elementary School" building and are an integral part of
the school (similar to the somewhat outdated school kindergartens in
Germany).

Many children attend a so-called "Preschool" or "Nursery School"
(Vorschule) before kindergarten. The "Elementary School" spans from
the first to the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, or eighth grade ("8th
Grade"), depending on the state or school district. After the fourth
or fifth grade, a "Middle School" (Mittelschule) may follow up to the
eighth grade. In San Francisco, public schools adhere to the
following model: five years of "Elementary School," three years of
"Middle School," and four years of "High School.

Please do not confuse the American "Middle School" with the German
"Realschule." In the USA, there is no tripartite school system, only
a comprehensive school system. The term "Middle School" refers solely
to the period when children attend this school, namely between
"Elementary School" and "High School.

Starting from the ninth grade, "High School" typically begins and
ends with the 12th grade. In some school districts, there is also a
distinction between "Junior High School" (often 7th - 9th grade) and
"Senior High School" (10th - 12th grade). If a student successfully
completes the 12th grade, they receive a "High School Diploma," which
should not be confused with the Abitur.

<pic images/school3.ps First Writing Skills: Decorated School Window>

However, if a student leaves school before completing the twelfth
grade because they have fulfilled the compulsory education
requirement, they receive nothing and are considered a dropout.
Although there is the possibility of obtaining the diploma later in
adult life, high school dropouts are not exactly at the top of the
social ladder in America. The diploma obtained later also has its own
name, namely "General Educational Development," commonly known as
GED.

The American school is a full-day school and starts between 7:30 AM
and 8:30 AM and ends between 3 PM and 4 PM. As in Germany, there are
different class periods (called "periods") and breaks ("recess").
American children also rest on Saturdays and Sundays. The school year
usually lasts 9 months (or 180 school days per year) and runs from
around the beginning of September to mid-June.

In contrast to Germany, the holidays are less spread out over the
year. Most schools give their students a week of spring break and a
few days around Christmas. However, the summer vacation lasts about 9
weeks. Not too long ago, American students used to get almost 3
months of summer vacation, a historical legacy from the times when
children had to help in the fields during the summer, which is now
recognized as outdated.

To prevent parents from going crazy during the long summer holidays
and to allow them to continue working without having to take their
children to the office, you can find summer programs everywhere,
offered by organizations such as non-profit institutions. The famous
American summer camp should not be forgotten either. Many schools
offer what is called "Summer School," which means no vacation and
lounging around: learning takes place. Since the concept of repeating
a grade is hardly known in America, students here have the
opportunity to catch up on gaps. There is also the possibility to
retake subjects in which the student failed.

Older students often look for jobs over the summer or work as
volunteers. In the Tenderloin, where I work as a substitute, there
are currently a bunch of teenagers who are using their vacation to
help us with the children. Our facility only closes for one week in
the summer.

<pic images/school2.ps Translation: Drawing and inscription at a
school. The students are enthusiastic about the teacher.>

But back to school: In elementary school, a teacher instructs the
basic subjects and may be supported by some specialist teachers. In
higher grades, students are taught by different teachers (depending
on the subject) and move from classroom to classroom, because in
America, it is not the teacher who moves from class to class, but
rather stays in their own classroom. This is also because teachers
often keep all their teaching materials at the school. Therefore, the
teacher designs their own classroom.

In "high school" (usually starting from 9th grade), American students
encounter a pure course system with a very broad range of subjects.
The discussion continues in the USA about how much freedom should be
given to individual students in choosing their subjects. Generally,
however, every student must complete certain mandatory courses, which
are supplemented by elective courses. The course system in the USA
does not strongly commit students to a specific direction regarding
their future career path. However, almost all high schools offer more
academically oriented courses that better prepare students for
attending college or university.

Grades and homework are common almost everywhere in the world,
including in the USA. However, grades are not expressed numerically
but with the help of letters: A, B, C, D, F. An A corresponds to the
best grade, comparable to a grade of one, B is considered good, C is
closest to a grade of 3, and D to a 4. If a student receives an F, it
means they have not passed. However, in America, it is considered
completely unacceptable to demotivate a poor student with bad grades.
Therefore, hardly anyone receives anything other than an "A" or "B".

In America, teachers are considered regular employees and can be
dismissed just as quickly as anyone else. Additionally, they earn
relatively low salaries. In the 2001/2002 school year, the average
annual salary of a teacher was $44,367, with the starting salary
averaging only $30,719. For comparison, a bus or subway driver earns
about the same. Salaries vary significantly from state to state.
Teachers in the USA have a better reputation than in Germany. You
often hear stories about particularly dedicated teachers who even
sacrifice their own money to buy missing materials for their
students. This must happen quite frequently, as since 2002, teachers
have been able to deduct a certain portion of these "expenses" from
their taxes.

<pic images/edison3.ps Edison Charter Schools>

In conclusion, I would like to report on a new American curiosity in
the school system, the so-called "Charter Schools." Charter Schools
are considered public schools and are therefore funded by tax
dollars. However, in this case, the school district or the state
transfers the educational mandate to the respective school through a
contract. There are already 2,799 Charter Schools in the USA (428 in
California), and during the 2002/2003 school year, they educated a
total of 685,000 students nationwide.
<LINK>http://www.uscharterschools.org|www.uscharterschools.org</LINK>
Zeigt Details" translates to "Show details" in English.

Charter schools generally have more freedom than traditional public
schools. The idea is that this greater freedom leads to more creative
teaching and better academic performance among individual students.
In theory, parents or teachers can come together and establish their
own charter school.

This doesn't sound bad in principle. However, since the early 1990s,
there has been a trend in America for charter schools to be run by
companies that not only aim to improve public schools but also want
to make a profit from it.

One of the most well-known charter school companies is "Edison
Schools Inc.," which now operates in 20 states. Typically, Edison
takes over completely run-down public schools. To the company's
credit, it should be mentioned that money is initially invested in
the schools. The philosophy of the company's founder, Chris Whittle,
is that the funds received by traditional public schools are consumed
by existing bureaucracy, and he believes that through sensible
management at his schools, he can not only prevent this but also turn
it into profit.

The profit, however, is still a long time coming -- Edison Schools
Inc. is facing significant financial difficulties. Critics argue that
schools should not generate profit at all, as they are funded by
public money. Many also characterize Edison Schools as a chain
(essentially the Starbucks of schools), similar to what you would
find in any American shopping mall, because Edison Schools operate
with a standardized curriculum that is used in all their schools,
regardless of regional differences. I personally believe that money
cannot be made from education and healthcare. It simply doesn't work.
There will be more on the topic of "school" in the next newsletter.

@Z: San Francisco Local: Subway to the Airport

<pic images/bart1.ps The racing newsletter reporter tests the subway
to the airport.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
And here is the local news from San Francisco again. After 30 years
of debating and planning, the first subway, popularly known as BART
(Bay Area Rapid Transportation System), finally ran on a newly
constructed route to San Francisco's airport, SFO, at the end of
June. This may seem a bit backward to you Europeans. However, those
who have traveled extensively in the USA know that even major
airports often lack a subway connection to the city center, let alone
cities having a reasonable public transportation system. Thus, the
San Francisco model is considered groundbreaking. As in most American
cities, the only options to reach the airport until now were by taxi,
private car, or the so-called "Door-to-Door Shuttle.

Until recently, we always resorted to the latter option, because the
"Door-to-Door Shuttle," as the name suggests, picks you up right at
your doorstep. This is especially convenient when traveling with a
lot of luggage. The "Door-to-Door Shuttle" is a minibus with a
driver. Since a minibus can accommodate more people who share the
ride, it makes the trip cheaper. There are several companies in San
Francisco that offer this service. The whole experience costs between
12 and 17 dollars per person, depending on the provider, and some
offer about a 50% discount for additional group travelers. Naturally,
you also tip the driver. In comparison, a taxi from the airport to
downtown costs about 37 dollars plus tip, while the subway ride from
our station, 24th Street, costs 4.60 dollars.

<pic images/bart3.ps The rushing newsletter reporter in the
"Airtrain" from the Bart to the departure hall>

We Old Europeans immediately tried out this new BART service when we
set off for the Perl Conference in Portland. With the help of our
rolling turbo luggage, the journey down the steep 24th Street to the
subway station was a breeze, and indeed everything went like
clockwork. The BART zoomed into the brand-new, ultra-modern SFO
station, then it was up a few escalators to the AirTrain, the
internal airport train that connects terminals, parking garages, etc.
In the end, though, we felt a bit like we were in the provinces
again, because passengers can only reach the terminal for domestic
departures by passing through the parking garage. We had a good laugh
about it.

Until next month! Your America Foxes:

The translation of "Michael und Angelika" to English is "Michael and
Angelika.

