San Francisco, 12-07-2003

@Z: Bail Bonds

<pic images/dads.ps Dad's Bail Bonds>

<em>Michael</em> 
If someone is arrested for a crime in America, there is the
possibility, as in Germany, that the examining judge will release the
prisoner on bail until the actual trial. If there is no direct risk
of flight, this is quite common. For minor offenses like marijuana
possession, about $5,000 must be deposited with the court, but for
more serious crimes, the amount can quickly reach $100,000. In the
case of Michael Jackson, it was recently $3 million. The bail is
returned if the defendant appears for the trial.

For those who don't have the urgently needed money or can't get it
from the bank, there's a special industry in the USA: the "bondsmen,"
who issue "bail bonds." These small businesses typically set up
around courthouses. In somewhat shady offices reminiscent of "Phil
Marlowe," they issue bonds to equally shady defendants for a
substantial fee (about 10% of the bail amount). To keep the risk
manageable, the bondsman will first try to involve the defendant's
relatives and personal assets, but to a significant extent, he must
truly trust the defendant and take a calculated risk: if the
defendant fails to appear in court, the bondsman must pay the full
bail amount to the court.

Next to the "San Francisco Criminal Court" on Bryant Street in
SoMa, there are a few dozen of these small offices that often
advertise their services to the bad guys with charming signs. The
photos for this newsletter topic were taken by the newsletter
reporter racing through SoMa on a bike with trembling hands, because
the quirky characters operating there don't mess around. The company
"Bad Boys Bail Bonds" is actually known nationwide and even
advertises on television. And there's even "Aladdin Bail Bonds" and
"Dad's Bonds"!

<pic images/aladdin.ps The chain "Aladdin Bail Bonds>

<pic images/bbb2.ps "Bad Boys Bail Bonds" advertisement on television>

If the defendant actually absconds and does not appear for the court
date, which happens in about 20% of all cases, the bondsman has a
problem and only one option: He must bring the defendant in within
the so-called "grace period" (six months in California) and deliver
them to the police--otherwise, it becomes costly. For this situation,
many bondsmen employ so-called "bounty hunters," daring
types who, in serious cases, set out to capture the fugitive using
methods that are often on the edge of legality and deliver them in
exchange for a reward paid by the bondsman (usually 10% of the bail
amount).

There are legendary figures like Ray Hawkins, a daring bounty hunter
who claims to have captured 7,000 escapees in his 50 years of
service! The professional bounty hunters do an excellent job: in 87
percent of all cases, they bring in the fugitives. And they don't
even have to handle them gently: according to a Supreme Court ruling
from 1873, bounty hunters are allowed to detain the bail jumper, who
is considered a sort of commodity until officially arrested, even at
their own home until they can safely deliver them to the police.

<pic images/bail2.ps Bail Bonds>

The bounty hunter business used to be relatively unregulated; it
wasn't until January 2000 that a law was enacted in California
regarding the training of bounty hunters. It mandates that future
bounty hunters complete a 40-hour course on arresting techniques, a
12-hour legal course focusing on bail law, and a 3-hour security
guard training. The exact number of bounty hunters in the USA is
unknown, with estimates ranging from 1,200 to 7,000.

In California, bounty hunters must be at least 18 years old (for
comparison: you can only buy alcohol in a supermarket from the age of
21) and have no blemishes on their criminal record. To arrest a
fugitive, they must notify the police no more than 6 hours in
advance. They are also not allowed to arbitrarily enter any private
residences or deceive people with uniforms or badges. No later than
48 hours after a successful arrest, they must hand over the fugitive
at a police station.

<pic images/dads2.ps "Dad's Bail Bonds" with an open bar>

For success in this rough business, a bounty hunter needs a good
connection to the underworld and a knack for dealing with bad guys.
He must know where the underworld bars are, where the shady
characters are hanging out. He's snooping around like a private detective,
locating relatives and ex-girlfriends who might want to get back at the
target. He spreads rumors in the underworld and gets the startled
crooks to call fake phone numbers, which then, in turn, locate the
calling phone.

One of the most famous bondsmen in San Francisco is not a man but a
60-year-old woman named Mackenzie Green from the bail bond agency
"Mackenzie Green and Partner," known for taking on almost any bail.
In case one of her clients disappears, she has a few strongmen for
support, but she still goes bounty hunting herself for the "thrill."

Now, have you caught the scent of adventure? On the internet, there's
a <LINK>http://www.beabountyhunter.com/seminar.htm|Training Seminar for Bounty Hunters</LINK>
and even a <LINK>http://www.bailtraining.com/certification.cfm|Certificate for Bail Enforcement Training</LINK> available.

@Z: San Francisco Neighborhoods: Mission

<pic images/mission2b.ps Busy activity on Mission Street.>

<em>Michael</em> 
One of the most beautiful achievements in San Francisco is the
international atmosphere. Within half an hour, you can travel from
Japan through Italy and China to South America. The latter
neighborhood is just around the corner from us, and when you descend
from our Noe Valley into the colorful Mexican "Mission," you can
hardly believe your eyes and ears: everybody suddenly is speaking
Spanish, people drive rundown cars, more trash lying in the streets, and
Mexican oom-pah music blares from apartments and bars. One taqueria
after another offers tacos, burritos, fajitas, and chile relleno.

<pic images/mission7.ps Hairdresser in the Mission>

In the Mission, people from Mexico and other South American
countries--Nicaragua, Peru, Brazil, Chile--have chosen this neightborhood
for a very long time. Interestingly, the Mission has the warmest climate in
San Francisco: never foggy, and on some summer days, it's actually as
scorching hot as in South America. Carlos Santana, the guitar legend,
grew up here.

During the dot-com boom in the late nineties, the Mission was quite a
wild neighborhood, with shootouts every night. However, it was
considered extremely chic among the newly wealthy yuppies to find
apartments in the Mission and furnish them in a hyper-modern style.
Suddenly, between the dented cars of the old Mission residents, there
were Daimlers, Porsches, and BMWs. This was not well-received, as it
drove up the cost of rent and displaced some of the poorer long-time
residents from their neighborhood, which they and their families had
inhabited for generations.

Even today, I wouldn't park a luxury car in the Mission -- on those
that are parked there, you often see unsightly meter-long scratches
in the paint, which were obviously caused intentionally by angry
people.

<pic images/truck.ps Truck, Mission district.>

<pic images/haken.ps Hooks in the Mission>

Alternative small businesses had settled in the Mission due to the
lower rents: For example, 'Die Werkstatt,' a motorcycle workshop run by a German. Or
<LINK>http://timbuk2.com|The company Timbuk2</LINK>,
which makes messenger bags popular amongst bicycle
couriers, is based here. Every hardcore cyclist in San Francisco
carries one. It's more than just a bag; it's a clear political
statement. You can buy them in select stores in San Francisco or
order them online. But they are made in the Mission.

<pic images/eff.ps Even alternative internet organizations like the "EFF" have set up their headquarters in the Mission.>

And also the
<LINK>http://eff.org|Electronic Frontier Foundation</LINK> has its
office there. It's an organization that focuses on defending civil liberties
in the digital world.
The organization is based in the Mission. The small, shop-like office
serves as the headquarters for the globally known, somewhat radical
organization that stands against any form of internet censorship.

<pic images/ad2.ps Billboard in Spanish>

Because most people in the Mission speak Spanish and many do not
speak English, the advertisements on billboards or the menus in
restaurants are often in Spanish. And probably due to the proximity
of our apartment to the Mission, I often receive promotional letters
from the telephone company in Spanish (Figure (#3)).

<pic images/spanisch.ps (#3) Am I Mexican or what?>

What many Europeans don't know: In the USA, there is this
a language-based two-class society. People who only speak Spanish and
not English typically work in low-wage jobs, such as washing cars or
as kitchen assistants. The head chef in a restaurant is required to
speak Spanish fluently, since most of the kitchen staff
do not speak English. And while waiters almost always speak English, in more
affordable restaurants it can certainly happen that the assistant who
clears the empty plates after a meal (the "bus boy") does not
understand a question asked in English and has to call the waiter for
help.

<pic images/truck2.ps Car with rig, Mission district.>

<pic images/mission6.ps Victorian houses in the Mission>

As is common in South America, on hot days ice cream vendors are pushing
white handcarts, softly jingling, through the streets. Ancient pickup
trucks with massive, amateurishly constructed structures transport
towering loads in defiance of regulations -- in Germany, such an
operation would be stopped by the next police patrol after at most
five minutes of driving.

<pic images/icecream.ps The ice cream cart man with customers>

<pic images/laundromat.ps Laundromat with mural>

Many house walls display so-called "murals," typical South American
wall paintings with various political or religious content, which,
especially in sunny weather, give the neighborhood its distinctive
southern flair with their colorful diversity.

<pic images/mission4.ps A small taqueria>

The taqueria "La Taqueria" near the intersection of Mission Street
and 26th Street serves the best tacos in the city. To order, you
first go to the counter, get a number, and then sometimes have to pay
close attention if the number is called out only in Spanish by
mistake. The taco chef, a middle-aged man with meticulously combed
jet-black hair, works through the orders at lightning speed. It's fun
to watch him as he swiftly slices meat with a knife or uses spoons to
scoop guacamole, salsa, or sour cream from the neatly organized side
dish pots onto the small, tasty creations. Afterwards, you sit at
long beer garden-like benches, mingling with other people (something
unusual in America, where everyone usually has their own table) and
enjoy the delicacies amidst a bustling atmosphere with toddlers
running around.

<pic images/view.ps View from our window in SF: In the background, the Bay Bridge; in the foreground, parts of SoMa and the Mission.>

@Z: Copyright Mania

<pic images/copyc.ps Copy-controlled products restricts consumer rights.>

<em>Michael</em> 
And here's another comment on the topic: Why Germans give up their
rights as consumers and let themselves be led by the nose by the
industry. The record industry is currently in quite a predicament
worldwide because people prefer to download free pirated copies from
the internet instead of buying CDs. What is the response of the
German record distributors to this? CDs that can no longer be stored
on the computer. This scam is called "copy-controlled." Folks, okay,
I know you're not there yet, but try to listen to me anyway: In a few
years, no one will be handling silver discs to listen to music. Do
you start your cars with a crank, perhaps? Are your cell phones as
big as bricks? Playing music CDs will seem just as ridiculous to you
in a few years. I've been playing music exclusively through the
computer on the stereo system for some time now. And, of course, only
music that I have legally purchased beforehand--I have no problem
with that. This way, I can choose from tens of thousands of songs at
the push of a button, play them randomly, or rate them based on their
romantic or intense factor and make my selection according to the
situation. On a single computer, you can store more than 5,000 CDs.
For your Stone Age method, you'd have to rent an extra room. I can
play songs on portable devices that are as small as a matchbox (e.g.,
the <LINK>http://www.nomadworld.com/products/MuVo|"MP3 Player MuVo"</LINK>
and deliver stereo system quality. Even if you drop them on the
floor -- because no rotating silver disc is necessary. Angelika has
one of these devices and is very satisfied with it. Or has anyone
heard of the iPod? Once you've experienced all of this, you can only
laugh at the obvious idiocy of the poor CD players.

Because the music industry is too dumb to find a method that
digitally replicates the previously functioning system (copies for
private use and friends are okay, but no unlimited piracy), more
and more so-called "copy-controlled" CDs are sneaking onto the German
market. This method restricts the rights of consumers who pay a lot
of money for music and cannot fully use it because the music cannot
even be stored on their own computer. Back to the Stone Age, just
because there are only blockheads working in the record industry?
I don't think so.

People, stand up for yourselves! Don't let the record company guys
fool you. Do it like the people in America: simply stop buying these
CDs. Value your rights. The result of the copy-control misstep in the
USA: American consumers vehemently demanded their rights, and these
CDs disappeared from the shelves as quickly as they had arrived due
to lack of sales. Not so in Germany: Germans apparently have no
problem shelling out the same amount of money for fewer rights. Wake
up! Those who buy such CDs not only disregard their own claim to
reasonably usable quality but also help to restrict the rights of
others. Put an end to it! You still have a lot to learn, my dear
friends.

TODO

@Z: TiVo Hacking

<pic images/simps.ps (#2) An instant message (AIM message) appears on
the TV screen thanks to Tivo!>

<em>Michael</em> 
About two and a half years ago, I (have) [verb missing] you in...
<RBLINK>20010501#10</RBLINK>
Translate to English: "introduced the TiVo box, the device that has
caused a second Big Bang in the history of television in the USA. I
would estimate that by now almost 50% of all Americans know what a
TiVo is. Do you know? If not, I would suggest that you quickly look
it up in the old newsletter, otherwise you might miss the revolution.

In Germany, miracles always take a little longer, but in the
meantime, I have learned that the device is now being showcased there
as a new exhibition feature! Welcome to the future, dear friends!

Anyone who now believes that they can catch up with us by purchasing
a TiVo is mistaken: The Americans have used the two and a half years
of technological advantage to crack open the box, inject all sorts of
self-written software into the computer-like (Linux!) platform under
the hood, and expand the TiVos with the most outlandish functions.

The whole thing is called "TiVo Hacking," but I need to elaborate a
bit. In the media, there's this term "hacker." In the common
understanding of the average person, this is someone who illegally
breaks into other people's computer systems and steals data or causes
other damage. Professional programmers, on the other hand, use the
term appreciatively for honest, talented colleagues, while they refer
to the troublemakers as "crackers.

TiVo Hacking" is somewhere in the middle: you need some tinkering and
programming experience to technically upgrade a standard TiVo and
customize it with unofficially developed software to suit personal
needs. "Modding" is currently very trendy, not just with TiVo, but
also with gaming consoles like the "PlayStation" and "Xbox". The
company TiVo raises a warning finger and voids the warranty if you
crack open the box--so you're always playing with the risk of turning
your TiVo, along with its lifetime program service, into a $500 piece
of junk. On the other hand, TiVo looks on with a wink, because the
wealth of talent that high-caliber people accumulate in TiVo internet
forums to exploit the revolutionary technology is something the small
company could never afford to pay for. There are even books available
on the topic now (see illustration (#4))!

<pic images/htivo.ps (#4) The best current book on upgrading Tivo>

On the online auction site ebay.com, professional TiVo enhancers
offer their products for sale. These individuals purchase new TiVos,
modify them according to the latest underground insights, and then
sell them to the highest bidder. Thanks to the modifications (which
I, of course, carried out myself following the above instructions),
our TiVo can record 140 hours of television and is connected to the
internet, allowing me to program it remotely from the office or a
hotel room if necessary. And illustration (#2) shows how our TiVo can
even display an instant message (AIM) received on my computer
directly onto the ongoing TV program. This way, you don't have to go
through the hassle of getting up from the couch to see who wants
something again!

@Z: Record of the Month: Fountains of Wayne

<pic images/fow.ps Welcome Interstate Managers" is an album by the
band Fountains of Wayne.>

<em>Michael</em> 
The CD of the month is: "Welcome Interstate Managers" by "Fountains
of Wayne". I discovered it because "Stacey's Mom" is currently being
played non-stop on the radio. But, beware: for those who aren't 18 at
heart like I am, this song by the four New Yorkers might seem
incredibly childish. However, the album has more to offer: "Bought
for a Song" or "Supercollider" are reminiscent of the fabulous
British band Oasis, while others, like "Fire Island," recall the
brilliant compositions of John Lennon. It's fantastic, buy it
immediately!

@Z: Weihnachtsstollen auf Umwegen" translates to "Christmas Stollen
by Detours" in English.

<em>Michael</em> 
During our visit to Japan last year, we noticed the "Andersen Bakery"
right in the middle of Hiroshima, which sold baked goods of German
standards. Such a thing happens in the USA only about every three
thousand miles. We were all the more delighted to see that a
"Andersen" also opened in San Francisco's "Japantown." The saleswoman
there admitted to us that she would like to visit the main store in
Hiroshima herself.

At the end of November, there was even German Stollen available
there, and at 9 dollars per piece, it was relatively inexpensive for
such an exotic pastry in the land of hamburgers!

<pic images/stollen.ps German stollen from the Japanese store in San
Francisco>

@Z: Zion National Park

<pic images/zion1.ps Waterfall in Zion National Park>

<em>Angelika</em> 
We are known to love traveling and do not tolerate any blank spots on
our map. As some of you know, we met back in the day at a car rental
company in Las Vegas and traveled with a spontaneously assembled
group of 8 people through the national parks of the American West:
Grand Canyon, Bryce Canyon, Canyonlands, Arches. Zion National Park
was also on the itinerary back then, but time was running short and a
winter storm was approaching, so we only drove through the park
briefly. I believe we took some photos, but the memory of this park
had faded significantly. That needed to change: So, at the beginning
of November, we boarded a plane to Las Vegas, stayed for two nights
at the MGM Grand Hotel, and then continued from there with a rental
car to Zion National Park.

<pic images/vegas2.ps The translation of "Reger Betrieb vor dem
Kasino in Las Vegas" to English is "Busy activity in front of the
casino in Las Vegas.>

From the MGM, we looked over at the Motel 6 where my friend Marianne
and I stayed almost 17 years ago. Michael and his college friend
Christian had chosen the youth hostel. The MGM didn't even exist back
then: typical Las Vegas, the undeniably most surreal city in America,
which is constantly changing at a rapid pace. Only one thing remained
constant in Las Vegas until recently: the show of the German-born
magicians Siegfried and Roy. You know, the ones with the white
tigers. The duo had been performing in Las Vegas for almost 30 years
until recently, when a tiger attacked the dark-haired Roy on stage in
October and seriously injured him. All of Las Vegas was in mourning
when we visited.

<pic images/vegas1.ps The translation to English is: "The tiger bit
Roy from Siegfried & Roy.>

But now to Zion: The landscape of the American West has fascinated me
since I first saw it in 1987. This may also be because there is
nothing comparable in Europe. Zion National Park can certainly be
described as a mountain range, but it has nothing in common with the
Alps. The gigantic, rugged rocks shimmer in red, orange, and ocher. A
river squeezes through the massive canyons. To truly experience Zion
Park, visitors must explore it on foot. Of course, that's what we
did.

<pic images/zion3.ps Weeping Rock, the "weeping rock" in Zion Park>

The hike with the poetic name "Angel's Landing" is considered the
absolute highlight. It involves a rather strenuous ascent, initially
leading to the viewpoint "Scout's Lookout" and then almost a
kilometer over a narrow mountain ridge. I was somewhat surprised that
the park brochures vehemently emphasized that the last half mile is
not suitable for small children and people with a fear of heights.
Arrogantly--despite being quite a coward when it comes to heights--I
ignored the warning because I once again thought it was an
exaggerated American precaution.

<pic images/zion5.ps The translation to English is: "You climb up
using this chain.>

<pic images/zion6.ps Angel's Landing" is already in English. It is
the name of a famous hiking trail located in Zion National Park,
Utah, USA.>

Ha, that lasted until we reached Scout's Lookout and I saw tiny dots
in the distance climbing around on a hair-thin ridge: it dropped 500
meters on both sides. The dots were "daredevil" hikers for whom the
word "fear of heights" did not exist. After a feeble attempt to
conquer the ridge, I declared Scout's Lookout as my summit after 100
meters. For Michael, who is known to love adventure, there was no
stopping. So he conquered the summit, clinging to chains, while I
stayed back with the more faint-hearted souls at the viewpoint,
exchanging horror stories. For example, that last year a man pushed
his wife off the ridge to murder her after he had increased her life
insurance payout.

<pic images/zion4.ps Alone at the Summit: The Roving Newsletter
Reporter>

After an hour, Michael came back safe and sound and showed me a short
film of Angel's Landing on his digital camera.

Angel's Landing: Not for people with a fear of heights

Even just looking at the pictures made me dizzy. When Michael then
told me that some hikers slid on their behinds at particularly narrow
spots to get through, I thought to myself, you really don't have to
experience everything in person.

<pic images/vfire4.ps Valley of Fire -- a surreal landscape>

On the return trip from Zion, we made a small detour to the
little-known Valley of Fire State Park, which is about a 45-minute
drive from Las Vegas. A bizarre desert landscape with sandstone
formations, including prehistoric Native American drawings, awaited
us. The rocks glowed in the most magnificent colors under the Nevada
sun. So, dear newsletter readers, if you ever find yourselves in the
area and tired of gambling, visit this park - it's an absolute
insider tip.

<pic images/vfire2.ps Valley of Fire: Rock Formations>

<pic images/vfire5.ps Prehistoric Native American rock paintings>

To explore the park extensively, we stayed overnight in the nearby
"Overton," which, aside from a Best Western motel, a supermarket, and
two restaurants, didn't offer much excitement. When we travel through
the vastness of America, I'm always amazed anew at the small towns
(hey, I'm a city person) where people live. In Overton, it is also
notable that it is located in the middle of the desert. Everything
was bone-dry and covered with a grayish layer. The question plagued
me as to how people can endure it here in the summer when the
thermometer rises to unbearable heights.

<pic images/moon.ps The desert vehicle behind the monster truck>

Owning an oversized car ("truck") with a trailer apparently helps
combat boredom in Overton. The trailer usually carries a Jeep-like
contraption, which is used to race across the desert landscape. To
each their own! Due to a lack of alternatives, we went to a Chinese
restaurant one evening and to a diner called "Sugar's" the next for
dinner. We immediately stood out as tourists from the big city
because Michael wasn't wearing a baseball cap. When he then asked the
waitress if they served local microbrews (often very good beers from
small breweries), which made me want to sink into the ground with
embarrassment, and she looked at him as if he came from the moon, we
were completely labeled as snobs in the place. It's a good thing no
one knew us there.

It was also funny that our first server wasn't allowed to take
Michael's beer order. She kindly explained to us that she wasn't 21
yet, but she would be happy to send her older colleague to our table.
You remember: In most states in America, you can only buy alcohol at
21. We were a bit surprised that the girl wasn't even allowed to
serve Michael his beer, because the state of Nevada--after all, Las
Vegas is located here--is generally considered to be quite lenient
when it comes to "sinful" behaviors. We only experienced comparable
strictness in Utah, the state with an extremely high Mormon
population, where Zion National Park is located. Buying alcohol there
is similarly restricted as in Finland. For example, in the
supermarket, you can find beer but not stronger wine. Back to
Overton: The next day, we bought a bottle of sparkling wine and a few
other things at the supermarket. A very young person (apparently only
teenagers work in Overton) was at the checkout, and as the bottle of
sparkling wine almost reached the scanner, the cashier stopped,
called her supervisor over the internal intercom, and said that she
wasn't allowed to ring up the sparkling wine because she was under 21
("under age" as they say here). Ahhhh!!!!

@Z: Mayor election in San Francisco

<pic images/wahl1a.ps The two mayoral candidates on CBS News,
Gonzalez on the left, Newsom on the right.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
After we had just recovered from the shock that "Mr. Terminator" was
governing the state of California, the election campaign broke out in
San Francisco. The city is looking for a new mayor because Willie
Brown, who had steered the city's affairs for eight years, has to
step down, as required by election laws. San Francisco has always
been an island in the American sea: liberal, a little quirky, firmly
in Democratic hands, so to speak, a Bush-free zone.

This was also reflected in the candidates. Of the six candidates,
only one belonged to the Republican--thus conservative--party and
promptly received the fewest votes. Matt Gonzalez, a Green Party
member who entered the mayoral race at the last minute, is considered
the candidate with the most leftist ideology. Gavin Newsom, according
to polls the favorite, is a Democrat, but in San Francisco, he is
often described by critics as a closet Republican--an exaggerated
characterization. The wealthy businessman Newsom sees himself as a
centrist and primarily represents the economic interests of companies
and businesses in San Francisco.

Transferred to the German party system, he seems to me more like a
dynamic FDP man. However, Newsom also did not secure the required 50%
of the votes on November 3 to win the election. Since Gonzalez landed
in second place, albeit significantly behind Newsom (by 40,000
votes), a runoff election will take place on December 9, and since
then, the city seems to be splitting into the Gonzalez and Newsom
camps.

<pic images/newson.ps Newsom-Werbung>

Gonzalez, who only switched from the Democratic Party to the Greens
three years ago, always reminds me of Joschka Fischer during his
Sturm und Drang phase, when he still sat in the Bundestag wearing
sneakers and jeans, and everyone in Germany laughed at green
politicians. The Greens still have a hard time in America, with only
1% of voters supporting them. In San Francisco, it's three percent.
It would be nothing short of sensational if San Francisco, a city of
some significance on the West Coast, were soon to have a Green mayor.

However, I believe that for the people in San Francisco, the green
party affiliation takes a backseat. What matters is the future of the
city. Naturally, "green" ideas are indeed part of Gonzalez's program.
For example, he promises, much to the delight of Michael and the
other dedicated cyclists of San Francisco (a group not to be
underestimated), to extensively expand the bike lanes throughout the
city. According to Gonzalez, the MUNI, the public transportation
system that includes streetcars, buses, and cable cars, should be
free of charge for seniors, youth, and people with disabilities. He
advocates for keeping large retail chains out of San Francisco's
neighborhoods, a hot political topic in the city. Additionally, he
wants to impose higher taxes on larger companies.

<pic images/gonz3.ps Matt Gonzales in Chinese with a view of
Alcatraz>

He became popular with the hardworking man by supporting, in his role
as acting city councilor, the initiative to raise the minimum wage in
San Francisco to $8.50 (for comparison: the minimum wage in
California is currently $6.75), which voters approved by a large
majority on the aforementioned November 3rd. His worker-friendly
attitude also earns him approval among the South American immigrants
living in the Mission. Additionally, he speaks Spanish, as he grew up
in a bilingual household (Spanish-English) in the Texan city of
McAllen, which is four miles from the Mexican border. Later, he
studied law at the prestigious Stanford University and worked as a
public defender in San Francisco. By chance, I recently flipped
through various TV channels and was captivated by what was actually a
boring city council meeting. One of the councilors stood out with his
charming, intelligent, and substantive contributions to the
discussion. You guessed it: I had come across Matt Gonzalez. Even his
political opponents always admiringly note that Gonzalez is not for
sale, a refreshing change, as Willie Brown's cronyism achieved
notoriety during his time as mayor.

<pic images/gonz.ps A small campaign poster in the window for Matt
Gonzalez>

But once again back to Newsom: There is only one issue that stirs
emotions in this city more than the unreliability of the MUNI: the
homelessness problem. So far, every mayoral candidate has promised to
solve this problem permanently, and each one has failed miserably
(including Willie Brown). Newsom tackled this issue, already eyeing
the mayor's office, in his role as a city council member with his
flowery campaign "Care not Cash," which completely polarized the
city. The idea behind the campaign is to drastically reduce cash
payments for homeless welfare recipients and replace them with
entitlements to assistance such as housing, food, and drug
rehabilitation--ensuring that the cash is not converted into drugs
and alcohol.

The idea may initially sound reasonable, but there are already not
enough homeless shelters in San Francisco, let alone affordable
housing or therapy places, especially for the high proportion of
mentally ill people living on San Francisco's streets. To make a long
story short: "Care not Cash" was put before voters as the ballot
initiative "Proposition N" in November 2002, received almost 60%
support, and immediately ended up in the courts. There, Newsom faced
criticism because the judge ruled that only the city council (and not
a ballot initiative) could decide on the matter. After endless legal
wrangling, the city council voted again on "Care not Cash"--and this
time against it.

In America, by the way, every election campaign relies on so-called
"endorsements" (support, backing). Newspapers, for example, openly
and very directly state in their editorials shortly before the
election who their readers should vote for. The idea that the
SÃ¼ddeutsche Zeitung could write "Vote for SchrÃ¶der!" always amuses
me greatly. But it's not just newspapers that endorse certain
candidates; unions and all sorts of other interest groups do as well.
Therefore, a crucial part of every campaign is who endorses whom. For
example, Al Gore and Willie Brown support Newsom, which undoubtedly
influences many voters. Who I endorse, once again, interests no one.
What a pity! I want a green mayor!

But regardless of whether Newsom or Gonzalez succeeds on December 9,
San Francisco's mayor will be a young whippersnapper: Newsom is 36
and Gonzalez is 38.

Greetings from the city that keeps you young:

The translation of "Michael und Angelika" to English is "Michael and
Angelika.

