
San Francisco, 12-15-2003

@Z: Christmas Newsletter 2003

<pic images/mauer.ps The newsletter reporters as shadows on a wall of a hotel in Zion National Park>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Only 10 days left... Michael grumbles because the shorts season is
finally over. Until the end, he resisted pulling the long pants out
of the closet. A few days ago, I bought another "Cheap" brand
umbrella because, after the long period without rain, I hadn't been
prepared for the wetness from above that also falls from the sky in
San Francisco during the winter. But even though Christmas is
approaching and the rain is making its return, our gloves and scarves
are gathering dust in closets and drawers. While Michael has
transformed into a Californian and vows never to live in cold
countries again, I long for winter days during the Christmas season
when Northern Europeans visit Christmas markets and drink mulled wine
to ward off the cold. I must admit that we often romanticize what
we've left behind when we're abroad. I think of crisp, sunny winter
days; you think of black ice, wetness, and slush. I crave gingerbread
and Mon Cheri candy, while you are annoyed that Christmas items are
already in stores in October.

TODO

A special kind of pleasure for me during the Christmas season is
going to the German store "Lehr's" on Church Street -- just around
the corner from us. Here, the German expatriate and the American
sweet tooth can find everything their heart desires: marzipan loaves,
Bahlsen gingerbread, Mon Cheri, ErfrischungsstÃ¤bchen, Duplos,
licorice, Jacobs KrÃ¶nung, and the good coffee from Dallmayr. Penaten
cream, Bebe, Fa shower gel are on the shelves alongside real
Christmas tree candles - a stroll through the German product range.
Only peanut flips, Bahlsen potato chips, and Tempos have I often
searched for in vain here. A misery! Special "treats" include folk
music cassettes, CDs by Peter Alexander and Costa Cordalis, as well
as the somewhat dusty videos of the ZDF series "Ein Herz fÃ¼r Tiere"
(this is not a joke). Other stereotypical German "cultural goods" are
also not missing: beer mugs, Hummel figurines, D-stickers for the
car, and the magazine "Das Goldene Blatt." If a German tourist were
to stray into this store, they would take a time travel back to the
1950s: a quaint, somewhat aged mom-and-pop store awaits them. I just
sincerely hope that the Americans who shop at "Lehr's" don't think
all stores in Germany look like this.

<pic images/lehrs.ps Lehr's: German Specialties on Church Street in San Francisco>

Older ladies, who couldn't look more American, wander through the
aisles and suddenly raise their voices to remark in German that this
or that product is much cheaper in Germany. Sentimental inclinations
do have their price. The small box of Mon Cheri (15 pieces in a pack)
costs over 10 dollars, and I don't even know what you pay for it in
Germany. Parents with their children also come to "Lehr's." Often,
the mothers or fathers stop in front of certain items and explain to
their offspring with shining eyes that they always had this or that
at Christmas. It's crazy how a loving relationship with food develops
abroad, especially with items that aren't easy to buy. The best part
is eavesdropping on the conversations in the small store. A funny mix
of German and English--"Denglisch," so to speak--is spoken. An older
man recounted that this year he is buying real Christmas tree candles
for his tree for the first time again, after having caused a
devastating fire in his wooden house in San Francisco a few years ago
because the Christmas tree with the burning candles had fallen over.
Oops!

From my last visit, I came home with Duplos, gingerbread (the ones
covered in chocolate), and Mon ChÃ©ri. So if you can't stand the
sight of your Mon ChÃ©ri on the colorful plate on the second holiday
this year, think of us and enjoy eating them!

In this spirit, we wish you a Merry Christmas!

Angelika und Michael
