
San Francisco, 03-01-2004

@Z: Same-Sex Marriage

<pic images/castro1.ps The rainbow flag as a symbol of the gay/lesbian movement in the Castro.>

<em>Angelika</em> 
President Bush prefers to ignore the liberal stronghold of San
Francisco. On his American map, we do not exist. However, this week
he mentioned the city by the Bay publicly several times. This is
because our newly inaugurated mayor, Gavin Newsom, has shaken Bush to
his conservative core.

TODO

Newsom issued the order to allow marriages between same-sex partners
in mid-February. It began with the rewording of marriage
certificates. It no longer says "husband and wife" but "spouses for
life." Just in time for Valentine's Day, the first weddings took
place at City Hall. In the first few days, hundreds of same-sex
couples, accompanied by the San Francisco Gay Men's Chorus and cheers
from onlookers, patiently lined up to receive the coveted marriage
certificate. In response, City Hall even opened its doors on the
weekend to handle the rush. City employees gave up their
well-deserved time off and worked without pay on the typically sacred
Saturday and Sunday for government offices to marry as many couples
as possible.

The former hippie city of the "Summer of Love" was in a state of
euphoric love frenzy and the thrill of civil disobedience for days.
But as soon as the first same-sex couple exchanged their vows,
conservatives crawled out of their holes and attempted to stop the
city's actions with a judicial injunction. However, the judge ruled
that there was no immediate danger. So the wedding bells continue to
ring. In the meantime, San Francisco has issued around 3,400 marriage
licenses to same-sex couples.

Even our very own Terminator and Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger
criticized San Francisco, as the California Family Code defines
marriage as being between a man and a woman. Schwarzenegger also
cited the ballot initiative "Proposition 22," which over 60 percent
of California voters supported in the year 2000, as it states that
California only recognizes marriage between a man and a woman.
<RBLINK>000309#9</RBLINK>
It seems like your input is incomplete or missing the text that needs
to be translated. Could you please provide the full text you would
like translated into English?

This may seem like one and the same issue to you now. But there are
subtle differences. "Proposition 22" anticipates that other states
might legalize same-sex marriage, which California would have to
recognize without the mentioned amendment. Schwarzenegger is now
harping on the fact that Newsom's actions violate California laws. He
claims that this is the only issue that concerns him as governor.
Naturally, he doesn't want to offend either his Republican party
friends or his homosexual friends in Hollywood.

Newsom, on the other hand, argues that the ban on issuing marriage
certificates to same-sex couples violates the equality principle of
the California Constitution, and is therefore discrimination. And the
constitution takes precedence over any referendum and the family
code. Incidentally, Bush's State of the Union address earlier this
year prompted Newsom's decision. In that speech, our president
predicted the downfall of civilization should marriage between
same-sex partners be legalized, which led Newsom to rebel. A decision
by the Massachusetts Supreme Court then encouraged Newsom to rise up
cheerfully and boldly. The judges of this small state on the East
Coast approved same-sex marriages on the grounds that the equality
principle of their constitution allows nothing else. Starting in
mid-May, Massachusetts will have same-sex marriage with all the
rights and obligations that heterosexual couples enjoy throughout
America. Only an amendment to the state constitution of
Massachusetts, which some politicians there are pursuing, could stop
the process. In California, too, everyone is preparing for a lengthy
legal battle. San Francisco initially filed a lawsuit against the
state of California for discrimination against same-sex couples.
Meanwhile, the state of California, represented by Attorney General
Bill Lockyer, is trying to get the California Supreme Court to
prevent San Francisco from issuing the coveted marriage certificates
and to declare those already issued invalid because they violate
existing law in California. One thing is certain: the case will
eventually end up before the California Supreme Court. The only
question is when, as the court usually only deals with cases after
they have gone through the lower courts. We will know more on March
5, when a second hearing takes place before the California Supreme
Court.

Bush, on the other hand, seems to be haunted by the fear that
Massachusetts and San Francisco will prevail, and last week he
advocated for amending the American Constitution with an amendment
stating that a marriage is only valid between a man and a woman. Now,
Americans generally react allergically when someone wants to tinker
with their Constitution.

She is considered untouchable by many. Even staunch opponents of
"same-sex marriages" therefore criticize Bush's proposal.
Additionally, Americans, especially conservatives, highly value the
independence of the states. Too much interference from Washington is
not welcomed. However, a constitutional amendment at the federal
level is seen as binding for the individual states, meaning they
could no longer maintain their own regulations regarding marriage
between same-sex partners. To pass a so-called amendment, a
two-thirds majority in the American Congress and ratification by
three-quarters of the states are required.

The fairly well-known American actress and show host Rosie O'Donnell
was so angered by Bush's actions that she flew with her long-time
partner from New York to San Francisco to marry her at San Francisco
City Hall. O'Donnell had nothing good to say about Bush. Many also
believe that Bush is only thinking about his re-election campaign and
wants to appease the religious right, which donates a lot of campaign
funds to him, with his highly moralistic stance. Who would have
thought that our dapper-looking mayor, who narrowly won the runoff
election against Matt Gonzalez and was compared unfavorably to Bush
and Schwarzenegger during the campaign, would establish himself as a
pioneer of a new civil rights movement (as many political activists
see it)?
<RBLINK>20031207#8</RBLINK>
Hats off! Ah, who would want to live in another city? Overall, Newsom
shows backbone. As one of his first official acts, he appointed a
woman (the first in America) as the chief of the city fire
department. Meanwhile, some other mayors have followed Newsom's
example: In Sandoval County, New Mexico, a few same-sex couples were
married on short notice. However, the county was quickly stopped from
issuing marriage licenses. In the small town of New Paltz, New York,
marriages are still taking place because the attorney general saw no
legal reason to stop them. The city council in Oakland (a city on the
other side of the San Francisco Bay) is also considering allowing
weddings between same-sex couples.

Incidentally, in California and other states, there has long been the
option of a registered partnership. This roughly corresponds to the
current German model. By registering, the same-sex couple receives
some of the rights that married heterosexuals enjoy, such as hospital
visitation rights or making medical decisions on behalf of the
partner if they are no longer able to do so. However, other important
rights are still denied to the couple, as these are mostly based on
federal laws or the rights of registered partnerships do not go far
enough: the right to file a joint tax return, receive pension
benefits after the death of a partner, exemption from inheritance tax
when inheriting real estate that belonged to the partner, and the
possibility for a foreigner to acquire a green card because the
registered partner is American, which is quite significant in the
immigration state of California. We will keep you updated on how
things progress.

@Z: Costco Nation

<pic images/costco1.ps Oprah Winfrey shops at Costco on her show.>

<em>Michael</em> 
Who really enjoys shopping at the supermarket! However, when I get to
go to the super-supermarket "Costco" once a month, the child in me
comes alive. Because Costco, which you can only enter with a
membership card (which costs $45 a year), doesn't just have
groceries. I can spend hours strolling through the aisles and looking
at the craziest things: A laser parking system for the car! A fire
extinguisher! An illuminated neon sign that says "Open"! A new
anti-saver showerhead that could easily shower elephants in the
circus! The number of items is, similar to the German Aldi (which, by
the way, has already made its way to the East Coast of the USA),
quite limited. There is usually only one brand of something, but
almost always the market leader.

With a shopping list for a cooking recipe, however, you would be out
of place at Costco. Half of the products are not available (e.g., no
horseradish or yogurt) and other items only come in huge quantities.
Who needs a kilo of mustard, 52 pens, or a pack of 36 batteries?

The secret to Costco's success is that it offers top quality products
not cheaply, but at reasonable prices. "Costco doesn't sell crap" -
that's the favorite saying of the Costco CEO, who was recently
interviewed in Money Magazine.

Take my flashlight: In the USA, the power supply is notoriously in
the hands of clowns -- and having the lights go out for a while in
the evening is already routine for us. When it happens again, we
calmly go to our closet, which we call the "kabuff," and get the
flashlight. Which flashlight brand? Of course, "MagLite." It's the
most expensive flashlight in the world. But anyone who has ever held
a "MagLite" in their hand, possibly in an unclear situation where the
neighbors were running through the hallway with flickering cheap
flashlights, will appreciate the cold, blackened steel casing of a
"MagLite" with its bright white beam. In an emergency, you could use
this flashlight to break a window, drive a nail into the wall, or
defend your home against intruders. Once you've experienced the
quality of this flashlight, you'll never settle for less. Of course,
it's not exactly cheap: you have to shell out about 20 dollars. Where
to buy it? At Costco, of course, in a set with a mini-Maglite for the
car and a set of batteries, for, guess what? Exactly: 20 dollars.

<pic images/mag.ps The best flashlight in the world: The Maglite>

Costco is now spread across the entire country. They have even
expanded to Japan. And although I am actually against the fact that
every city now has the same department store, coffee shop, and
fast-food chains, I immediately get a sense of home when I discover a
Costco somewhere in the middle of nowhere. The slight local
differences are also fantastic: for example, at the Costco on Oahu,
Hawaii, I once bought car seat covers with Polynesian-inspired
patterns -- super cool!

Costco speculates that people will buy gigantic quantities when there
is top quality at low prices. The shopping carts there are oversized.
Homeless people, who like to push around their belongings, value a
"Costco" like a Mercedes Benz. Also, at Costco, there is no "Express
Checkout Lane" at the register, as is common in other American
supermarkets, where you are only allowed to line up if you have, for
example, up to five or ten items and pay quickly, either in cash or
with an ATM card.

I am a Costco fan and I'm not afraid to admit it publicly. If Costco
ever starts an advertising campaign with famous people and wants me
on a poster, I would immediately agree. I even put up with the
completely un-American store closing times of this chain, although I
find it totally unacceptable: They actually close at 5:00 PM on
Sundays!

@Z: Pfanni, Panni and the Madness of Measurements and Weights

<pic images/dump.ps The Panni Dumplings in America>

<em>Michael</em> 
In our corner supermarket, I was surprised to discover some time ago
that you can even buy Pfanni potato dumpling mixes. However, they are
not called "Pfanni" but "Panni," probably because Americans can't
pronounce "Pf" correctly and would say "Fanni," which means "funny."
And the preparation posed unexpected difficulties: you had to
dissolve the dumpling mix provided in the package in "2 1/8 cups" of
water. With the help of the internet, you can quickly get to the
bottom of such things: On
<LINK>http://convertalot.com/kitchen.html|convertalot.com</LINK>
It states, for example, that 1 cup is exactly 8 fluid ounces. One
ounce is just under 30 milliliters, one cup is 237ml, which is
approximately a quarter of a liter.

The fluid ounces should not be confused with weight ounces, which
correspond to 28.35 grams. At the butcher, it is impossible to order
200g of sausage. I usually order "half a pound," with the American
pound weighing 453g, which is slightly less than the German pound.

I have also ordered a beer in restaurants, to which the waiter asked,
"12 or 16 ounces?" Since only child-sized portions are served in
America anyway, you can safely always order the larger amount. By the
way, 12 fluid ounces is a small drink can, 16 ounces is equivalent to
a "pint," which is slightly less than half a liter (0.473 liters).
Two pints make a "quart," and 4 quarts equal a gallon, which is 3.78
liters.

Once, I wanted to buy a new rubber stopper for our bathtub at a
hardware store. I briefly used our inch tape measure and found that
the drain was about two and a half inches wide. One inch is
approximately 2.54 cm, but that's just a side note. When I arrived at
the store, I discovered that there were stoppers in two sizes: two
and a half inches and 2 3/8 inches. The difference between 2.5 and 2
3/8 is only 1/8 inch, which is 3 mm, so I drove back home cursing to
take a more precise measurement.

And in everyday interactions, you have to adjust: If you explain
directions to someone and say "left after 400 meters," no one
understands. However, "after a quarter mile" is understood by
everyone. For shorter distances, "feet" are used, which are units
30.49 cm long. In the sentence "could you maybe move your
gas-guzzling car back a meter so I can pull out," you need to use "3
feet" for the length to avoid confusion. And here are all the length
measurements in relation: 12 "inches" make a "foot" (30.49 cm), 3
"feet" are a yard (91.4 cm), and a mile is 1760 yards or 5280 feet
(1.609 kilometers).

And now the newsletter quiz question: How much does a car consume if
it is advertised with "25 miles per gallon"? The American does not
calculate how many liters of gasoline a car consumes per 100
kilometers, but rather how many miles it can drive with one gallon of
gasoline. A high value therefore indicates low fuel consumption. Who
knows the answer?
<LINK>gallons.html|Auflösung</LINK>
The translation of "steht auf unserer Webseite" to English is "is on
our website.

@Z: Lifetime backpack warranty

<em>Michael</em> 
As often mentioned in the newsletter, unlike German customers,
American buyers do not let retailers make a fool of them. Stores are
open when the customer has time to shop, not when it suits the noble
sales staff to start working. If you don't like a product, you
exchange it--no silly questions are asked, no drama with vouchers is
performed; instead, you get your money back, and that's that.

But that's not all. Recently, after a full five years of heavy use,
my backpack broke. Every weekday, I stuffed it full with a laptop and
books and dragged it back and forth between Mountain View and San
Francisco by bike and train. It was with me on all my travels, from
Hawaii to Japan, from Washington to San Diego. And eventually, the
zipper burst open. But I remembered that the manufacturer of the
backpack, Briggs & Riley, at that time had a...
lebenslange
Warranty on the part was offered.

Now, this backpack was no longer available in the program, but I
simply called the toll-free 1-800 number listed on the saved warranty
card. And, lo and behold, customer service was happily willing to
repair the item for free--I just had to send the backpack by mail to
the repair service in Half Moon Bay. It cost about 4 dollars, and a
few days later, the backpack came back perfectly repaired and with a
new zipper at no cost. A really good store, this Briggs & Riley!

@Z: Altglasentsorgung

<em>Michael</em> 
In America, just like in Germany, you pay a deposit on glass and even
some plastic bottles at the store. However, no one would think of
bringing the empties back to the store to get the money back.
Instead, people throw the bottles into a blue bin, put it out on the
street on a specific day of the week for the municipal glass
collector, and forgo the money.

This is a phenomenon in America: It's considered uncool to worry
about cents or small dollar amounts. Although there is the saying "A
penny saved is a penny earned," almost everyone throws their coins
into the next beggar's cup. Only old grandmas with small pensions
rummage through their wallets at the checkout to use the annoying
small change to pay odd amounts. Young people pull bills out of their
pockets and immediately deposit any coins in the "tip jar," a tip
container often placed at the register in coffee shops and small
stores--even though such places don't actually provide services that
require tipping.

The copper cents are absolutely disliked by everyone -- even beggars.
For this reason, there is sometimes a so-called "Give a Penny, Take a
Penny" box at store checkouts. When you receive pennies as change,
you toss them in there, and if you owe an amount like "Ten dollars
and 3 cents," you simply give the cashier a ten-dollar bill, and they
take the 3 cents from the penny box. Exceptions are the large
supermarket and fast-food chains: At McDonald's or Safeway,
everything is accounted for precisely, and no one accepts tips. The
uniforms of McDonald's employees have no pockets for a reason.

<pic images/mihobo.ps (#1) Homeless person with a shopping cart and
deposit bottles>

But back to the glass recycling: The bottles and cans placed in the
blue crates on the sidewalk are often picked up by resourceful
homeless people, who roll through the streets with supermarket
shopping carts packed to the brim and loaded with empties (Figure
(#1)). They take them to the return machines located at some
supermarkets and receive a few cents for each can or bottle. By the
way, the refund depends on the state. In Michigan, oddly enough, you
get a bit more than elsewhere. In an episode of the comedy
"Seinfeld," two of the characters try to drive a whole van full of
recyclables from New York to Michigan because of this.

<pic images/redemp.ps Deposit information on the beer bottle.>

@Z: New on TV: Mythbusters

<pic images/mbusters1.ps The "Mythbusters>

<em>Michael</em> 
Our TV box assistant Tivo (
<RBLINK>20010501#10</RBLINK>
.. once again secretly browsed through the channels and discovered a
show that I like: The show "Mythbusters" on the Discovery Channel.

There are these urban legends: sensational rumors, mostly completely
made up, that stubbornly stick in people's minds and that everyone
eventually believes blindly. For example, that a penny (1-cent coin)
dropped from the Empire State Building can seriously injure someone
standing on the street below. Or that a cell phone ringing while
refueling can cause a gas station explosion. Or that a microwave oven
will explode if you put something metallic inside. Or that a piece of
meat soaked in cola overnight will dissolve. Or that a drug test will
come out positive if you have eaten poppy seed cake.

<pic images/mbusters4.ps Jamie Hyneman fires a penny at 100
kilometers per hour at a plastic skull.>

The declared goal of the two "Mythbusters" hosts, Adam Savage and
Jamie Hyneman, is to get to the bottom of such rumors through
hard-hitting laboratory experiments, while blowing up as many items
as possible in a media-effective way. The format of the show is
always the same: the two hosts track down an "urban legend" and then
retreat to their workshop, equipped with all sorts of machines, to
simulate the problem. In the case of the penny supposedly flying off
the Empire State Building, they simply determined the terminal
velocity of a falling penny experimentally and then crafted a special
cannon from an industrial stapler machine that shoots pennies at the
same speed onto a gel-encased skull. The result: all bogus. At most,
you might get a slight scratch.

<pic images/mbusters3.ps Adam Savage breaks a CD in his hand.>

The translation to English is: "Or a spoon in the microwave: It will
at most get hot. However, aluminum foil crumpled into a ball will
emit nasty sparks.

Or the case with the gas station: Even if a cell phone rings in a
glass box filled with gasoline vapor, nothing explodes. Even a
robotic arm operating there, which generated static electricity with
a synthetic material, could not cause anything to happen. Only an
artificially generated electrical spark, created using high voltage,
was able to initiate the desired explosion and blow up the
experimental setup to the delight of the two hosts.

And since the show is coming from San Francisco, one thing cannot be
missing: the escape from the prison island of Alcatraz in the middle
of the Bay to the mainland. In a Mythbusters episode, the two
researchers glued together a triangular raft made of rubber raincoats
with prison glue--just like the three infamous convicts who escaped
in 1962 but were never found, around whom countless legends have
since arisen. I would never have believed it, given how stormy and
cold the Bay water is: But the two hosts and a volunteer actually
managed to maneuver their raft in the middle of the night with oars
nailed together from planks to the northern end of the Golden Gate
Bridge and reach the shore.
<em>Myth busted" translates to English as "Myth busted." It is
already in English.</em> 
!

<pic images/alc2.ps The Mythbusters escape at night on a raft made of
raincoats from Alcatraz to the mainland.>

I would, however, like to have another myth clarified: On long,
exposed country roads where the police couldn't possibly park a radar
vehicle without it being visible from five kilometers away, you
sometimes find signs warning of "Radar Patrol by Aircraft." Airplanes
measuring the speed of cars? That's just an old wives' tale! How is
that supposed to work? Besides, it would be far too expensive.
Hopefully, the Mythbusters will debunk this nonsense soon!

@Z: Curiosities in the American School System

<pic images/uniform.ps Schul-Uniformen>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Ha, no one noticed that I still owe you the last part of my trilogy
"The American School System." I'm always fascinated by the
half-knowledge one acquires about American schools through years of
watching American TV shows. For example, everyone knows from the teen
series "90210" that dates in high school are always arranged in front
of the obligatory lockers.

Lockers" are steel cabinets in which students lock away their books
and other belongings, which is actually quite practical because this
way, students don't have to carry their heavy books back and forth
every day. The social calendar of high school also seems familiar to
us, and yet somehow not, because we have never had the opportunity to
experience certain activities live.

Two major events are on the high school calendar every year: the
"Prom" and "Homecoming." "Prom" is a lavish school dance where the
boys and girls dress up in formal attire and hit the dance floor. In
the show "90210," all sorts of dramas unfolded at the prom. The
dances (not parties) sometimes didn't even take place in the school
building but in hotels or similar venues.

Homecoming," on the other hand, can be found at both American high
schools and colleges/universities. The football team comes "home" for
the first home game. In addition to the football game, there is often
a parade and a party. A female student and a male student are elected
as "Homecoming Queen" and "Homecoming King" (similar to a beauty
queen and king).

<pic images/school1.ps Schulbusse>

I also like the American school buses. They always remind me of a
children's book that I owned at a young age. The school bus in the
book had a thousand adventures and looked just like the American
ones. Whenever I see one of those yellow school buses here, I always
think it's about to talk to me, because the front of the bus has
almost human-like facial features. But I digress.

Children who attend public schools in America usually take the school
bus. Hardly anyone walks or even rides a bicycle to school. Although
I must admit that in safe areas of San Francisco, it does happen that
children walk to school. Riding a bicycle is less common in this
hilly city. And in sparsely populated areas, school buses are also
necessary because the distance to school is often very far.

The social experiment known as "bussing" emerged in the 1970s and is
rarely used today. The idea behind "bussing" was to transport
students to different schools using school buses in order to create
more diverse school populations. The aim was to prevent schools from
being composed mainly of either black or white students.

<pic images/honor.ps Honor-Student>

In the meantime, the concept of "Affirmative Action" is highly
regarded. It involves a special type of quota system in favor of
disadvantaged minorities. The idea is that minorities in America
often find themselves in worse financial and social situations, which
reduces their educational opportunities. Therefore, universities are
allowed to consider a student's ethnic background as a factor in
admissions and give them preference. This is intended to create more
equal opportunities. Naturally, there is strong criticism of this
practice. For example, the passing of Proposition 209 in California
in 1996 significantly restricted the previously common practice of
"Affirmative Action.

I am always fascinated by the fact that good students in America are
not immediately categorized as "nerds." How else could one explain
the practice of the "Honor Roll" at American schools? Students can
earn a spot on the list through outstanding achievements. We often
see stickers on cars here, with which parents boast that their child
is an honor student ("My child is an honor student"). I would have
been mortified if my parents had put such a sticker on our car.
Wearing school uniforms wouldn't have been my thing either. However,
in America, not every student is made to wear one. Private schools
often require school uniforms. At many public schools, this is not
the case.

And finally, a little tidbit from everyday American school life. In
one of my numerous photography courses, I learned about the
institution of military courses at American high schools. At first, I
thought it was a joke, but then we not only saw photos of students in
uniforms but also a military formation exercise. The so-called JROTC
courses (JROTC stands for Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps) can
be found in many high schools in America. The Department of Defense
sponsors them and provides the textbooks, uniforms, and the
instructor, usually a retired military member. In these voluntary
courses, students are supposed to learn discipline, responsibility,
and leadership qualities in a military style. Critics claim that this
is merely a recruitment program for the American army, which is not
unfounded, as 40 percent of students who go through a JROTC program
later enlist in the military. There are things that are hard to
believe.

@Z: The translation to English is: "Poor economic situation and
closures.

<pic images/berkex3.ps The UC Berkeley Extension>

<em>Angelika</em> 
Despite the persistent propaganda from the Bush administration that
America is experiencing an economic upturn, layoffs are still
occurring, and there are hardly any new hires in San Francisco and
Silicon Valley. The latest trend is that companies are not only
outsourcing their production to low-cost countries but also their
development departments, as firms in India pay programmers a fraction
of the salary that would have to be paid here. Many companies,
including financially strong large ones, are cutting back on their
health insurance programs.

But even the medium-sized businesses are suffering. As we walk up
24th Street, the main shopping street in our neighborhood, we
encounter signs at every turn in the shop windows announcing
clearance sales and business closures. Although we have been living
here for over seven years now, I cannot understand why there is no
revolution in America. There are people who have two or three jobs
just to make ends meet and still cannot afford health insurance. At
the same time, Bush is cutting taxes for the super-rich. The national
debt is growing daily, and then last week, the top financial guru
Greenspan announced that in the long term, cuts to pensions ("social
security benefits") are to be expected to fill the budget gap, which
of course hits low-income earners the hardest. The American dream of
"rags to riches" simply does not die in people's minds. The optimism
(including Michael's) remains unbroken. At the end of last year, I
personally felt the impact of the economic downturn. The "University
of California Berkeley Extension" decided to close its building
complex on Laguna Street due to financial difficulties. Renovations
were needed to make the large but aging building complex
earthquake-proof and accessible for the disabled. The money was not
in the budget because UC Berkeley Extension had expanded diligently
during the boom years and miscalculated.

Furthermore, course enrollments declined because many could no longer
afford the expensive course fees. The extension program, which can
roughly be defined as adult education, is indeed affiliated with the
renowned University of Berkeley, but it must independently generate a
profit.

The attentive newsletter reader knows that the building on Laguna
Street was like my second home, because not only did I attend
countless photography courses there, but it also housed "my"
darkroom. Eliminated! Although courses are still offered in another
building in the city and in Berkeley, the photography program and art
offerings in general have shrunk alarmingly, and there is no
replacement for the darkroom. "Unprofitable arts," the dean declared.
We protested, collected signatures, wrote letters, and discussed with
the dean. It was all to no avail. Now the building stands sad and
abandoned, waiting for demolition. Rumor has it that investors want
to build new apartments on the highly coveted land.

In February, I set out to find a new darkroom. The "Harvey Milk Photo
Center" came to the rescue. It is a large group darkroom operated by
the city of San Francisco. You pay a small fee to use the darkroom. I
was already familiar with the center because my photography
collective regularly meets in their other facilities. Now I just hope
that the Harvey Milk Center remains open, as San Francisco's budget
is also lacking in many areas.

@Z: It is shaking again" or "It's shaking again.

<pic images/quake.ps An earthquake with a magnitude of 6.5 on the
Richter scale.>

<em>Michael</em> 
On Monday, December 22nd, at eleven o'clock in the morning, I was
working in the office when suddenly the AOL/Netscape building began
to sway back and forth in a wave-like, quite harmonious motion, about
half a meter. We had just moved into new premises on the third floor,
and at first, I thought someone was pushing a heavy cabinet down the
hallway. When it continued and even the colleague who was standing at
the entrance to my cubicle talking to me looked puzzled, I quickly
checked the internet, and lo and behold: a 6.5 on the Richter scale.

<pic images/quakeimb.ps The translation to English is: "An IM
conversation during the quake.>

While one gets used to minor tremors over the years in a seismically
active area, a 6.5 on the nonlinear scale is a serious
magnitude--poorly constructed buildings can collapse, and being
buried under them is no fun. In fact, in the town of Paso Robles,
which was near the epicenter, three people lost their lives when a
building collapsed. I immediately called Angelika's cell phone, but
unfortunately, no one answered. At home, I left a message on the
answering machine. After a while, I became worried and looked up the
number for the photo darkroom in the basement (!) of the UC Berkeley
Extension, where she was once again spending time--fortunately, no
one there had noticed the quake and would have thought to make
contact. Phew!

@Z: Der Governator" translates to "The Governor" in English. This
nickname is often associated with Arnold Schwarzenegger, who served
as the Governor of California.

<pic images/taxref2.ps Arnie lowers the motor vehicle tax again and
refunds the difference.>

<em>Michael</em> 
As we all know, we are currently dealing with the new "Governator,"
as Arnie Schwarzenegger is called in the newspapers. This neologism
is a combination of "Governor" and "Terminator" (the movie). One of
his first actions in office was to roll back the vehicle tax increase
implemented by his predecessor, Gray Davis. In America, this tax is
hardly worth mentioning, and for our 13-year-old "PERL MAN," we paid
about $80 a year after the increase, whereas it was $40 before.
Recently, we received a refund check from the Department of Motor
Vehicles to reimburse us for the $41.07 we overpaid.

The downside, of course, is that this money is now missing for quite
reasonable projects, such as schools. But for Arnie's Republican
sponsors, who drive gas-guzzling "Hummer" SUVs and shout
"Environment? Nonsense!", this action was probably important. It
doesn't get any dumber than this.

@Z: Netscape at the end?

<pic images/netscape.ps Orphaned: The Netscape Campus>

<em>Michael</em> 
Shortly before Christmas last year, AOL cleared out the last
buildings on the former Netscape campus. Out of 800 people, about 500
were immediately laid off, and around 100 were offered the
opportunity to move to the East Coast, to Dulles, to AOL's
headquarters. "Immediately laid off" meant being informed at ten
o'clock and having to leave the building by 12:00 noon. A hectic
scene ensued, with personal belongings being cleared from cubicles,
farewell scenes everywhere--a sad day. The company was generous and
paid everyone a four-month "severance package," which included salary
plus health insurance.

Fortunately, I wasn't affected, but unfortunately, 90% of my
colleagues are now gone. Interestingly, immediately after the layoffs
were announced, some competing companies like Yahoo or eBay held
so-called "Open Houses," specifically for those laid off from AOL,
probably to snap up the best talent. We are still in contact through
mailing lists, and some have already found new jobs, but the job
market situation is not very promising.

But things are looking up. And unlike in Germany, where I have the
impression that everything is really going downhill and everyone is
just complaining, Americans remain positive: Things will get better.
And believe me: It helps.

Greetings from the valley floor

Angelika und Michael
