San Francisco, 11-12-2017

@Z: Inside San Francisco's Sewage System

<pic images/sewer-tour.ps Residents learn where their wastewater goes from the knowledgable guide.>

<em>Michael</em> What happens after we flush the toilet? To find out, we booked
a tour of the "San Francisco Public Utilities Commission Wastewater Treatment
Plant" in the Bayview district at the end of August. Promptly at 9:45 on a
Saturday morning, we had to report at the visitor entrance wearing long pants
and closed shoes (!), and after an hour of theory, we were immediately equipped
with helmets and latex gloves.

<pic images/sewer-tourists.ps Typical sewage tourists>

San Francisco has what's called a "combined sewer system," which means it
directs toilet flushes and other household wastewater together with rainwater
that runs into the sewers through the same pipe to one of the city's three
wastewater treatment plants.

<pic images/sewer-flow.ps The wastewater smells quite terribly on its way to purification..>

There, machines first filter out non-decomposable parts from the wastewater,
and we were informed that so-called "flushable wipes," or wet toilet paper,
contrary to what the packaging claims, do not decompose in the wastewater.
Instead, they are fished out at the sewage treatment plant along with other
solids by large rakes and stored in a landfill.

<pic images/sewer-collect.ps A machine fishes out non-decomposable parts from the wastewater.>

<HTMLONLY><pic images/sewer-buttons.ps Unfortunately, pressing buttons was not allowed.></HTMLONLY>

What remains is foul-smelling brackish water redolent of excrement, whose
sludge content slowly settles to the bottom, where it is then removed and
chemically thickened until it has about the consistency of hot asphalt. It is
subsequently used as fertilizer on fields where no food is grown. The water is
then further purified by microorganisms, disinfected with chlorine, and pumped
out through a pipe extending about 50 meters into the San Francisco Bay. About
80% of San Francisco's wastewater is thus returned to the cycle, with the
remaining 20% undergoing a similar process (but without chlorine) into the
Pacific Ocean.

<pic images/sewer-sludge.ps This sludge is chemically thickened and goes to the landfill.>

Americans often affectionately refer to excrement as "Poop" or "Number Two" or
"#2". The latter is used so that little kids can differentiate between pee
("Number One") and poop ("Number Two"). The slogan of the sewage treatment
plant was quite catchy, proclaiming that the brown sludge from the sewer is the
city sewage plant's top priority, as, right? "Your #2 is our #1", which was
actually emblazoned on stickers that workers proudly wore on their helmets.

<pic images/sewer-clean.ps Purified wastewater that can go back into the Bay>

During heavy rain, especially in surrounding cities with smaller facilities
like Pacifica, it can happen that the sewer pipes and the additionally
installed catch basins fill up, and then there's no time left to clean the
sludge, which then goes directly into the Pacific Ocean without further ado.
This also explains the warning signs that appear on the beach after heavy
rains, prohibiting swimming. I've always wondered where that came from. Of
course, the surfers there don't take any notice of warning signs; come what
may, they go into the water, as the waves don't surf themselves.

@Z: The New Dishwasher

<pic images/dishwasher-ready.ps Our kitchen now features a German made dishwasher.>

<em>Michael</em> Recently our old washing machine gave up the ghost. In America,
the landlord is responsible for providing replacement kitchen appliances if
they break down, but since ours would have undoubtedly been replaced with
another noisy, low quality appliance that makes you think the door's open and it's
impossible to entertain guests or even watch TV while it's running, we decided
to bite the bullet and buy a quiet Bosch dishwasher. Its customer reviews
on Amazon weren't exactly mind-blowing, but German products have gone downhill
in quality and nowadays have pretty bad
reputation in America (just like German cars that often sit in repair shops), so
what can you do? We were just hoping for the best.

<pic images/dishwasher-gap.ps Just before the installation

The new dishwasher was delivered by two strong men who hardly spoke English,
and upon my request, it was not installed by professional personnel because I
wanted to do it myself to save the $150 which it would have cost extra
otherwise. Who would have thought I'd learn some things for life in the
process!  Fortunately, there are plenty of hobby craftsmen on YouTube who show
how to connect the power cable and the water supply pipes, so that part was
pretty straightforward.

<pic images/dishwasher-electric.ps (#1) Screw clamps hold the power cable.>

In America, dishwashers are usually only connected to the power grid using
screw clamps like in Figure (#1). In many residences, there is only a cable
coming out of the wall under the sink, and after the plumber has pushed the
dishwasher into its niche, he unscrews the metal cover at the bottom of the
machine, frees up the electrical connector that is marked with numerous
warnings, insulates the ends of the cable from the wall, twists the wires with
those of the machine, and screws on caps. Those who forget to disconnect the
power source may experience an unpleasant surprise when someone later removes
the dishwasher from its niche and forgets to unclamp the cable beforehand. The
Bosch dishwasher, however, had a very elegant outlet cover that is screwed
under the kitchen sink, which requires a separate power cord and plug that you 
have to buy yourself, and can then be plugged into any nearby socket.
Fortunately, I learned electrical engineering back in the day!

<pic images/dishwasher-tray.ps A small shelf captures any droplets from the water connection.>

It suddenly occurred to me that the new Bosch vacuum cleaner was about 3
centimeters smaller than the previous American model, so I fitted a wooden
strip which I had bought for a dollar at a hardware store and then blackened
with paint into the gap. Later on, I learned that every dishwasher model can
indeed be raised using locking wheels to such an extent that it can also cope
with high kitchen cabinets. Next time, I'll know!

<pic images/dishwasher-height.ps A self-made wooden bar conceals the gap.>

And the drain hose must first be led up from the machine, above the height of
the siphon, according to the strict "Code" of the American Plumbing
Association, and then, like in a fountain, tumble down through an air gap. This
prevents backflow into the dishwasher's fresh water supply in case of blockages
in the sink or siphon clogs. Whether it's actually that important to install an
air gap, where the water from the drain hose first sprays upwards and then
falls into a catch area that leads it further into the siphon or the garbage
disposer, I don't know. It's probably one of those old regulations that Joe
Schmoe follows blindly and religiously, as is often the case in American
bureaucracy.

<pic images/air-gap-all.ps The air gap, to prevent backflow, required by the plumber's union.>

If the dishwasher does not shred the coarse food residues but simply sprays
them off the plate and pumps them away, these air gaps often get clogged, and
the hooby plumber scratches their head wondering why the dishwasher is not
pumping the water out. The fact that you can simply pull off the chrome cover
of the air gap and expose the drain hose by unscrewing the plastic cap hidden
beneath it, to then easily remove any trapped food particles, is something that
took me years to find out.

@Z: My New York Times Subscription

<pic images/kindle-nyt-title.ps For a whopping 19.99 Dollars a month, the New York Times is delivered daily to Angelika's Kindle.>

<em>Angelika</em> Political topics interest me a lot. Every day, I watch the
one-hour news program 'News Hour' on the public broadcaster PBS, and often
'Charlie Rose' as well. I also read the weekly magazine 'The New Yorker' and
important articles online in the 'SÃ¼ddeutsche Zeitung' and 'Die Zeit.' It is highly
interesting to compare the reporting in various publications. The renowned
'New York Times' naturally cannot be omitted from this list.

Since newspapers no longer make money with their print versions because
everyone now reads the news online, more and more publications are
starting to charge for their online articles. For example, the New York Times
offers only 10 free articles per month. A reader can extend this a bit by
accessing the New York Times site on different devices, such as on a desktop computer,
a laptop, and a phone. But that hasn't been enough for me for a long time,
because I love reading the comments from various journalists on New York Times
opinion page.

<pic images/kindle-nyt-article.ps That's the way Angelika reads a selection of articles every day.>

These articles are called "Op-Ed" here, by the way, because they are
traditionally found on the page opposite the editorial page (Op-Ed: "opposite
the editorial page"). Anyway, for our anniversary, Michael gave me a Kindle.
And when I started using it, there was another surprise: the Kindle had a New
York Times subscription loaded on it. However, not all articles from the New
York Times are included in the daily Kindle version, but a selection is. This
selection is quite extensive, and the subscription includes unlimited access to
the articles on the New York Times website. By the way, the subscription costs
$19.99 per month. Now, every day I diligently read the articles on my Kindle
and feel like Gesine Cresspahl in the book "Anniversaries" by Uwe Johnson. This
protagonist also constantly reads the New York Times.

@Z: Smoke over the City

<pic images/smoke-sf-downtown.ps Downtown San Francisco Downtown is completely covered with smoke from Napa.>

<em>Angelika</em>
Four weeks ago on Sunday, around half past eleven at night,
it suddenly started smelling in our neighborhood as if everyone had lit their
fireplaces at the same time. We really thought that either there was a fire in
the neighborhood or one had broken out in our house. I'm constantly worried
that our house might go up in flames, especially since a few guys in our
apartment complex heavily consume alcohol and marijuana and aren't always fully
aware. Also, sometimes rather strange figures lurk around on our roof. So, we
always have to be on guard that nothing happens or no one gets the idea to
start a bonfire there. On that particular Sunday, we first opened the
balcony doors, but saw nothing. We only felt a warm strong wind blowing towards
us, which was odd because the wind here is never warm. Michael then searched
the internet to see if there was a fire anywhere in San Francisco. His research
turned up nothing. Then he asked on the neighborhood forum "Nextdoor" if it
smelled like smoke elsewhere, and in no time, despite the late hour, he
received 70 responses: Not only did our neighborhood "Noe Valley" smell like an
open fireplace, but all of San Francisco reeked of fire.

Soon it turned out that there were massive fires in the wine region of Napa,
about an hour and a half drive away, and the surrounding areas of Sonoma,
Calistoga, and Santa Rosa were ablaze. Fires in California in the autumn are
unfortunately not uncommon, as months without rain leave the vegetation
bone-dry, and just a small spark can quickly develop into a large wildfire,
especially when driven by the wind. Later, the fires in Northern California
this year turned out to be the worst in the state's history: over 40 people
died and 8,889 buildings were destroyed, including many well-known wineries.
Calistoga, which we visit every year for a long weekend
(<RBLINK>20060421#2</RBLINK>), was also threatened by
the flames but was saved at the last minute. The house of one of my colleagues,
who lives in Santa Rosa, was consumed by flames. She was able to get herself
and her four children to safety, but otherwise lost everything.

<pic images/smoke-sf-noe.ps Even in our neighborhood, everything was bathed in yellow light from the smoke cloud.1>

The air in San Francisco was as bad as in Beijing for days; the sunsets were
beautiful but eerie. I have never seen such a bright red sun in my life. People
were walking around everywhere with masks, though I'm not sure if that really
helps. In the East Bay, where I often worked, I even had ash on my car.

<pic images/costco-masks.ps To ensure they don't inhale even a speck of coal dust, these shoppers are wearing masks.>

We've had earthquake emergency kits under our bed for a long time (<RBLINK>20050925#9</RBLINK>), and an
emergency rope ladder that we can use to rappel down in case it's no longer
safe to use the stairwell. These kits naturally contain only practical items,
and then we also have a fireproof safe with Michael's external hard drive and
our will. We should probably also add our passports and Green Card, and my
computer backups, so that my many photos, which I am so attached to, don't get
lost. But what would we miss? What would be irreplaceable? What would we
quickly gather if we only had minutes to leave the apartment?

<pic images/smoke-mask-bike.ps This cyclist is protecting himself with a mask from the smoke plumes from Napa.>

Our answers might seem a bit clichÃ©, but Michael would miss his collection of
tools, and I would miss my jewelry. The reasons are similar: Michael has
accumulated his tools over the years and even bought some at the traditional
store Kustermann on Viktualienmarkt during a visit to Germany. For my jewelry,
it's not about the relatively low material value, but about the sentimental
value. I often buy jewelry when we are traveling, and Michael has given me many
beautiful pieces for birthdays, anniversaries, and other special occasions.
Good friends have also given me jewelry over the years. Thus, each piece of
jewelry and each tool tells a story.

<pic images/napa-firefighters.ps In front of a scorched hill near Napa, there is now a sign expressing thanks to the emergency responders.>

Experts familiar with disasters often advise not only to pack practical items
in your emergency kits and backpacks but also to include a box of personal
items that are irreplaceable. I find this to be an interesting exercise. What
would you put in such a memory box?

The fires will have long-lasting effects on the entire Bay Area, particularly
exacerbating the housing crisis. Even before the devastating fires, there was
only a 1% vacancy rate for apartments and houses in Santa Rosa and the Napa
wine region. However, at least 5% of the housing stock in Santa Rosa was
destroyed by the fires. Even if homeowners decide to rebuild, the evacuees will
need somewhere to live until their homes are ready. But this could take a
while, as the owners of the burned houses must not only deal with their
insurance companies but also ensure that the land is not contaminated with
pollutants. The ash must be removed first.

<pic images/sf-smoke-baybridge.ps Smoke visible on the horizon at sunset from the Bay Bridge.>

Additionally, there is a shortage of construction workers. Those who are in a
particularly difficult situation are the renters who lost their apartments in
the fires, as they generally aren't among the high earners, and rents, which
were already extremely high, are likely to increase further due to the housing
shortage. Already, most people in the Bay Area spend 30-50% of their income on
rent, with some even spending more. Although the
<LINK>https://oag.ca.gov/consumers/pricegougingduringdisasters|California Penal Code Section 396</LINK>
prohibits price gouging after disasters (prices cannot be increased by more
than 10%), this doesn't help renters who have lost their affordable housing to
the fires and now need to find something new in an overheated market. Many fear
that this will lead to even more low-income earners leaving the Bay Area. The
area is already experiencing shortages of teachers, cooks, dishwashers, and
other service industry workers, who are essential to the community.

@Z: Top Produkt: Febreze Air Freshener

<pic images/febreze.ps Not at all intrusive and eco-friendly in a pump bottle: the bamboo scent from Febreze.>

<em>Michael</em> I'm very sensitive to smells, and nothing ruins my day quite
like cheap perfume or the smell of sweat when a colleague at work has
apparently never heard of deodorant. The worst is the smell of vinegar;
Angelika sometimes experiments at home making materials for her group classes
with vinegar, and it drives me crazy. Or the stench of stale food when Angelika
has eaten lunch in the car and I have to drive it the next day. Yuck!

<pic images/tree-scent.ps Awfully sweet artificial smell in the shape of a Christmas tree.>

Americans are also sensitive to smells, but to a degree that is almost
laughable. Most can barely eat Camembert without fainting; only the
particularly brave venture into Emmental, and real stinkers like Limburger,
Munster, or something French like Ãpoisses de Bourgogne may only appeal to
about 1%, while the rest turn on portable table fans when such cheeses are
served.

When you take your car to the car wash here, diligent Mexican workers clean it
inside and out and often spray some "Air Freshener" inside, which is supposedly
called "Lufterfrischer" in German. In many Americans' cars, there's also a
Christmas tree-like symbol hanging from the rearview mirror, continuously
emitting an artificial smell that's also meant to convey freshness. Popular
scents from the manufacturer "Little Trees" include various fruits like "Green
Apple" or "Coconut." That was never really my thing.

But recently, when I had to remove food odors from the car again, I found a
spray bottle of the scent spray specialist "Febreze" at Target, who also makes
scented sheets for dryers. The product is called "Febreze One" and it disperses
a bamboo scent using a pump bottle, the likes of which I had never seen before.
You just operate the lever a few times, and after three or four pumps, the same
lever then sprays the scent mist as if there were propellant gas inside, which
is not the case. It's not as silly as other pump bottles where you have to
press down like an idiot to get a weak squirt out the front; instead, it really
works on its own and out the front comes a tremendously powerful mist that you
wouldn't believe. Truly a top-notch product. The scent is unobtrusive, it
quickly dealt with the food odor in the car, and I was able to drive relaxed
again.

@Z: Yearly Healthcare Open Enrollment

<pic images/united-healthcare.ps A traditional health insurance plan with the freedom to choose any doctor, like United Healthcare?>

<em>Angelika</em> Trump and associates had made efforts to repeal Obamacare,
but they were unsuccessful. This was recently a hot topic in the news. What's
less known is that most employees in the USA still receive their health
insurance through their employer, not through Obamacare.

We also have health insurance through Michael's employer. I could have received
health insurance through the institution I work for, but I am instead covered
under Michael's plan because he gets better terms. The employer selects one or
more health insurance providers and then offers them to employees, who must
choose anew each year during the so-called "Open Enrollment" period.

Large companies typically offer not just various health insurers but also
different "plans" or contracts with varying benefits. For example, Michael's
employer offers the health insurers "United Healthcare" and "Kaiser." We always
choose "United Healthcare" as our insurer and can then select from two
different plans. The choices usually involve differences in the copay amount,
the level of the deductible, the freedom to choose doctors, and the amount of
the monthly premiums. Employers generally contribute to the monthly premiums,
but there are no fixed percentages for employer or employee contributions. The
company usually pays a significantly higher percentage of the premiums than the
insured, but at my employer, it would be significantly less than at Michael's.

Every year, typically in the fall, the company prompts employees to reevaluate
their insurance by either switching insurers or selecting a different plan. Of
course, this only applies to the insurers and plans that the company offers.
The company can also change the terms, such as by increasing the premiums,
modifying the deductible, or altering the copay amounts. This period is known
as "Open Enrollment." Employees make their choices in the fall, and the new
terms take effect starting January 1st.

<pic images/kaiser.ps ... or perhaps the more affordable Kaiser Permanente with fewer choices?>

Most companies also offer other perks for employees, which can be selected
during this phase as well. For Michael, these include dental and vision
insurance, the option to increase a company-provided life insurance policy by
paying a small premium, the possibility to purchase life insurance for a spouse
and children, or to enhance an already offered disability insurance plan.

Employees also decide whether and how much they want to contribute to what's
known as a "Flexible Spending Account" (FSA, <RBLINK>20091104#10</RBLINK>), which allows for tax-free
deposits for anticipated medical expenses. The tax-free maximum amount
currently allowed is $2,600. As mentioned, not every company offers such an
extensive catalog of benefits. At my job, for comparison, only health and
dental insurance are available, along with the option to contribute to an FSA.
Since government social benefits in the USA are limited, companies try to
attract and retain good employees not only with reasonable salaries but also
through these additional benefits.

In many areas, including Silicon Valley, there is currently almost full
employment, which makes it challenging to fill positions with qualified
individuals. Recently, I heard on the radio that some companies are starting to
help with the repayment of student loans to attract people and fill open
positions. Since education is very expensive in the USA, people with higher
degrees often spend years paying off substantial debts after completing their
studies. This new benefit can be a significant draw for prospective employees.

Similarly, the health insurance system in the USA originally emerged after
employers began offering health insurance to their employees. During World War
II, there were fears of inflation, and the U.S. government decided to freeze
wages and salaries. This was unpopular with the unions, which threatened to
strike, and employers also disliked the law because they urgently needed
workers but could not offer higher wages to recruit them. As a response, the
U.S. government decided that health insurance provided by an employer would not
be considered as part of salary and thus was exempt from the regulation.
Companies then started offering health insurance to make their firms more
attractive to job seekers. In 1943, the U.S. tax authority decided that
employer-provided health insurance contributions would be tax-exempt, thereby
establishing the foundation of today's health insurance system in the USA.

Indeed, this system makes it difficult to establish a national health insurance
system in the USA because companies have traditionally offered these benefits
voluntarily with little government regulation. Under Obamacare, companies with
a certain number of employees are now required to offer health insurance to
avoid penalties, but as you know, Obamacare's stability has often been in
question. However, there is renewed hope as the public seems to increasingly
value Obamacare. Enrollment for Obamacare happens every fall, and the early
numbers look promising. The enrollment period for Obamacare started on November
1st, and the participation numbers are higher than last year. It's quite
ironic: initially, a large portion of the population criticized Obamacare, but
now, as there are threats to dismantle it, many people are realizing it may be
better than its reputation suggested.

Greetings from Smokeytown:

Angelika \& Michael
