San Francisco, 12-20-2020

@Z: Back to School

<pic images/face-shield.ps Angelika's protective gear for everyday life at school.>

<em>Angelika</em> While most students at public schools in San Francisco and
the surrounding area have been struggling with distance learning since March,
private schools here have reopened their doors. Education policy in the USA
takes place at the local level, so it is entirely possible that the state of
California allows school openings despite the pandemic, but the individual
counties still resist.

Despite low infection numbers in September and October, nothing changed for public schools in San Francisco. The school where I work is not in San Francisco but in neighboring San Mateo. However, in San Mateo, only private schools have returned to in-person instruction so far. Why can private schools now welcome students back on campus, but public schools cannot?

<pic images/alvarado.ps The public schools in San Francisco have still not reopened even eight months after the start of the pandemic.>

Private schools generally have more money and better facilities since they are
funded by tuition fees rather than state funds. They often operate more
flexibly because they are usually single schools and not part of larger school
districts that local school authorities have to manage. The staff are not
unionized, so employment contracts do not need to be negotiated with teachers'
unions. Surprisingly, the teachers' union is very influential in the USA, even
though unions, except in some key industries, do not play a major role. In the
context of school reopenings, the unions naturally want to be involved to
represent their members, the teachers. There are many points of contention:
What is considered safe? Who provides the protective masks? Which age groups
return to school first? What happens to teachers who belong to a high-risk
group?

<pic images/doll.ps The doll motivates the children to wear their masks.>

In private schools, things are often handled in a less bureaucratic manner. For
example, we received $50 per staff member to buy protective masks. The children
bring their own masks. There are emergency supplies of masks paid for by the
school. Other protective measures were also funded from the school's budget,
which did not have to go through any committees first.

You can see, my school (<RBLINK>20181208#7</RBLINK>) has been open again since
September. We applied for a special permit from the state of California, which
our Governor Newsom primarily allowed for elementary schools in the summer. We
had to develop a safety plan that covered the pandemic requirements of the
local and American health authorities (Center for Disease Control, CDC). Our
administration initially submitted this plan to the local health authority in
San Mateo, which reviewed it and then forwarded it to the California Department
of Public Health. At the end of August, we received approval to reopen.

However, the devastating wildfires intervened. The poor air quality forced the
school to its knees again, and we had to postpone the opening once more. But by
mid-September, it finally happened. After endless, exhausting months of
distance learning, we saw our students not on a screen but sitting in the
classroom again. Since we are a very small school with very few students in
each class, we were able to meet the requirements well. Each student has their
own desk surrounded by plexiglass. My desk, which I hardly sit at when the
children are there, and my colleague's desk are also shielded with plexiglass.
I always feel like I'm at a bank's cash dispenser.

<pic images/mask-break-area.ps If the students need a mask break, they are allowed to take it off in this area.>

The students' desks are all at least 2 meters apart. The air is filtered by a
specially purchased super filter. Each student has their own materials as much
as possible. Otherwise, we disinfect. All students (and, of course, staff), no
matter how old, wear masks always and everywhere: in the classroom, on the
playground, in the restroom. The children are usually only allowed to take off
their masks for eating or drinking, and only outside at designated tables where
social distancing can be maintained. The spots are marked with green and red
circles so that the students know where they can sit to eat.

Outside, in front of each classroom, there is also a designated area where
students can take a mask break. They are allowed to sit on a chair and remove
their mask there. The start and end times of the school day are staggered for
each class, as are the breaks, so our students do not come into contact with
students from other classes. Every morning, fever is measured, and a
questionnaire with COVID-19 symptoms is checked before the children enter the
school grounds. We all have rough hands from so much hand washing. Whenever the
children enter or leave the classroom, such as before and after recess, they
have to wash their hands. Fortunately, we have a large sink right at the
entrance. If a child shows any COVID-19 symptoms, such as a runny nose, they
are not allowed to come to school until a negative COVID test is presented. All
staff members must take a COVID test at least every four weeks if there are no
symptoms. If symptoms are present, they must stay home and get tested
immediately.

<pic images/dropoff.ps Staggered arrival times for student groups at a private school in San Francisco.>

The whole situation certainly sounds terribly regulated. I admit that I had
major concerns about whether my students could handle all the rules, as I work
with children who are not that easy to manage. But the children proved me
wrong. No one complains about wearing masks or constant hand washing. The
children were all so happy to be allowed back to school that they accepted all
the regulations. Nothing is worse for them than sitting isolated in front of
the computer, even for a generation that loves video games.

Somehow, it also comforts me that personal contact is so highly valued by them.
In my opinion, the effects of isolating children during COVID are being
completely downplayed. So far, despite the enormously rising numbers across the
country, we have managed quite well through the crisis at our school. After the
winter break, we will do at least one week of distance learning again because
we can't really control what the individual students and staff do during the
holidays. Do they adhere to the regulations or contact restrictions? During the
first week of distance learning, everyone must get tested, and no one is
allowed back to school without a negative test. Despite the renewed lockdown in
San Francisco and the surrounding area, schools that are already open are
allowed to remain open.

@Z: Sold-out Christmas trees

<pic images/xmas-tree.ps The 119 Dollar Christmas tree on the balcony.>

<em>Michael</em> If Americans buy a Christmas tree at all, they usually start
looking for it at Thanksgiving at the end of November. They also set it up and
decorate it right away, because after all, this way they get more out of their
investment.

Angelika also wants a Christmas tree every year, but she prefers to buy it
shortly before the 24th and set it up only on the 24th. A week before the
holiday, the sales locations usually still offer acceptable trees, but at our
usual spot this year, there were only three-meter-tall giant trees and
one-meter-small mini trees left; the mid-sized trees were completely sold out.
We eventually found one that was 2 meters 10, but when we asked how much it
would cost, the man said dryly: 176 dollars, which made us reconsider.

After an hour of driving across the city, checking various Safeway parking lots
where trees were supposedly being sold according to the internet, but in
reality only housed already closed sales shacks, we finally found success at a
garden center by the ocean. From the five remaining trees, we chose the best
one, and while the employee was tying the tree to our car roof, he told us that
this year had been particularly crazy. Many more people than usual were staying
in the city for the holidays, and while the store typically sold 600 Christmas
trees per season, they had wisely ordered 1,000 this year, but they were now
practically all gone, and getting more stock quickly was not possible.

So now a $119 tree stands on our balcony, waiting for December 24th, when it
will be allowed into the living room and be decorated by Angelika herself in an
elaborate process. Meanwhile, I write articles for computer magazines or go
surfing.

@Z: Voting in the garage

<pic images/polling-1.ps Voters in San Francisco can cast their ballots in a garage.>

<em>Michael</em> Now that the presidential election is over, readers of the
newsletter might be wondering how people in America vote. While in Germany, a
polling station often opens in the nearest elementary school, things can be a
bit more rustic here in San Francisco. In our neighborhood, some residents run
official polling stations in their home garages. This is no joke; as you can
see from the photos, these volunteers receive official ballot boxes and papers
and are responsible for properly delivering the cast votes to the official
authorities.

Due to the election process called the 'Electoral College' in America, each
state individually determines the president. Some states have historical
preferences, and since a candidate is chosen in each state on a
winner-takes-all basis, a supporter of the Republican Party in California might
as well not bother voting, because California has voted for the Democratic
candidate for the past 40 years. Rumor has it that even a cardboard cutout of a
Democrat would still have a better chance in California than the most moderate
conservative politician.

<pic images/polling-2.ps Due to COVID-19, voters wait outside the polling station until it is their turn.>

But as always, the presidential election was bundled with the abundantly
practiced California ballot initiatives, the so-called 'Ballot Measures.'
Citizens here can vote directly on various issues, such as 'Proposition 18,'
which proposed lowering the voting age to 17 (rejected by 56%). Or 'Proposition
16,' which would have allowed the state, contrary to the Constitution, to give
preferential treatment to ethnic minorities (rejected by 57.2%). Or
'Proposition 22,' which allows taxi companies Uber and Lyft to classify drivers
as independent contractors rather than employees (approved by 58.6%).

So, when a Californian goes into a garage polling station, they receive a huge
ballot and have to check not only 'Trump' or 'Biden,' but also several dozen
boxes for numbered propositions. The ballot measures are named at the
discretion of the petitioners, and it is often not easy to figure out what
voting 'Yes' or 'No' actually means. For example, the vote on Proposition 16
was formulated as follows: 'Repeal Prop 209 Affirmative Action Amendment.' It
was about repealing an old proposition from 1996, which prohibited the state
from treating citizens unequally just to benefit certain minorities.

<pic images/prop-16.ps (#1) Prop 16 at the 2020 election in California.>

Back then, it was a halt to the so-called 'Affirmative Action,' a state program
that tried to improve the living conditions of minorities like Blacks or
Latinos through state interventions, for example, by giving them preferential
consideration in college admissions. This, of course, angered other groups like
Whites or Asians, who, despite better grades, were at a disadvantage. So, in
1996, Prop 209 determined that this was not lawful. Prop 16 in 2020 brought
this old issue back and aimed to legalize this unequal treatment again.
Therefore, voting 'Yes' on the ballot was in favor of repealing the old
proposition, thus legalizing unequal treatment.

By voting 'No,' one voted against the repeal, thereby supporting the
continuation of the current practice of equal treatment. To ensure that even
people without a higher education are not overwhelmed, websites like
ballotpedia.org explain what a 'Yes' and 'No' vote means for each question.
Voters often enter polling stations with self-written tables that indicate
which box to check for each number to achieve the political outcomes they
planned at home. Some also bring cheat sheets from activists, listing the
recommended choices for those they trust to copy. The result: As mentioned
above, Prop 16 was rejected by 57.2% of California voters, so it remains
illegal for the state to grant advantages to minorities. The principle of equal
treatment remains in place.

@Z: Flu vaccination in the drugstore

<pic images/walgreens.ps Walgreens, the leading drugstore chain with pharmacy services.>

<em>Angelika</em> I haven't had the flu often in my life, but there was one
time when it really got me. We were still living in Munich, and I thought I was
indispensable at work, so I went in with a fever, which immediately backfired,
sending me into a fever delirium and incapacitating me for quite a while. For
some time now, I've been telling myself every year that this year, I'll get the
flu shot, but then I didn't do it, even though it's recommended due to my work
with children.

But due to Corona and the fact that I have to stay home and get tested for any
symptom that is on the official Covid list, I thought to myself, 2020 is my
year for the flu shot. This is because flu and Corona symptoms are hard to
distinguish from each other. Of course, I didn't want to sit in my doctor's
waiting room with all the coughing and sneezing people just for a vaccination.
But you have to give it to the Americans; sometimes they are very pragmatic.
here, anyone can get vaccinated in the drugstore.

<pic images/walgreens-booth.ps In the small white cubicle on the right, the pharmacist is vaccinating customers against the flu.>

As has often been reported here, in the USA there isn't a classic pharmacy as
you know it from Germany. Pharmacies are either
located in drugstores like "Walgreens" and "CVS" or in supermarkets like the
"Safeway" chain. German visitors always find it a bit strange that
non-prescription medications like aspirin are available on the regular shelves
in the supermarket. However, for prescription medications, you still need a
prescription in the U.S., but you can get the medication from behind the counter
in the back of a drugstore.

In the U.S., the profession of a pharmacist also exists, and every drugstore or
supermarket that offers prescription medications employs one. In all American
states, these pharmacists are allowed to administer vaccinations to adults (not
all states permit this for children). Generally, anyone wanting a vaccination
can simply show up at the store to get vaccinated, or can make an
appointment online.

If you have health insurance, it covers the vaccination, and the drugstore
bills the insurance company directly. I just had to present my insurance card.
My insurance fully covered the flu vaccination. I made an appointment online at
the Walgreens around the corner from us and got one for the same day. Then I
just needed to provide my birthdate, address, and name, and answer a few
questions such as whether I was feeling sick or if I had ever had an allergic
reaction to vaccinations.

<pic images/flu-fighter.ps Angelika got the flu vaccine at the drugstore.>

At the appointed time, I went to the Walgreens drugstore, checked in at the
pharmacy area, and after a few minutes, the on-duty pharmacist came. She led me
into a box-like structure that looked like a small container, which turned out
to be a tiny room with a chair. She confirmed my details once again and then
administered the vaccination in my arm. I had always wondered what that huge,
person-sized box at the end of the aisle in Walgreens was for when I was
shopping there. Now I know! By the way, you can not only get flu vaccinations
in drugstores but also vaccinations for all sorts of other things (shingles,
whooping cough, hepatitis). I read in the German media that this year in
Germany, there are the first pilot projects testing flu vaccinations in
selected pharmacies.

TODO

@Z: Wanderer, Jäger und Sammler

<pic images/panorama.ps Auf dem Wanderweg rauf nach Twin Peaks bieten sich tolle Ausblicke.>

<em>Michael</em> Wie schon einmal ausgeführt (<RBLINK>20200519#2</RBLINK>),
gehen wir (fast) jeden Abend auf einen Rundgang durch unser Viertel, um uns
selbst in Pandemiezeiten einigermaßen fit zu halten. Mittlerweile haben wir
schon so viele Meilen abgelatscht, dass Angelikas Wanderschuhe den Geist
aufgegeben haben, aber wir bestellten einfach das gleiche Modell nochmal über
den Outdoor-Ausstatter REI, diesmal Online und nicht im Laden. Die
nächsten 10.000 Meilen können kommen.

<pic images/cups.ps Wer gerade frisch eingezogen ist, kann vielleicht diese Tassen oder die Haustierfüttermaschine gebrauchen.>

Dabei geht es uns gar nicht um das Ziel der Wanderung, sondern um den Weg, 
mal halten wir ein Schwätzchen mit dem Postboten, der am Abend noch die
letzten Briefe austrägt, oder lachen über eine Familie auf der 23sten
Straße, die jeden Abend auf den Stufen zu ihrem Haus sitzt und mit
ihren Nachbarn, die wegen Social Distancing ein paar Stufen weiter unten
kauern, Happy Hour mit Wein machen. 

<pic images/chair.ps Dieser Stuhl wird wohl Schwierigkeiten haben, Abnehmer zu finden.>

Auch staunen wir darüber, was die Leute hier im Viertel alles so auf die
Straße stellen und ein "Free"-Schild dranmachen, damit's jemand mitnimmt.
Ob das eine LP-Sammlung mit 100 Scheiben ist, oder ein paar nicht mehr
benötigte Krücken, ein alter Grill, oder ein durchgewetzter Arbeitsstuhl,
jedes Teil erzählt so seine Geschichte. Manchmal steht auch ein antiker
Schrank zum Mitnehmen da, aber da muss ich Angelika immer bremsen, denn wir
haben leider keinen Platz zuhause.

<pic images/shelf-1.ps So stand das Regal auf der Straße zum mitnehmen.>
<pic images/shelf-2.ps Nun steht es in unserer Garage und bietet Stauraum für unseren Krempel!>

Einmal hatte jemand ein sehr solides, zwei Meter hohes Kellerregal aus Plastik
vor die Tür gestellt, und wir wussten sofort, dass wir das gut für unseren
Tiefgaragenplatz gebrauchen konnten, um alten Krempel, der bisland verstreut
auf dem Boden lag, aufzuräumen. Also drehten wir um, liefen im Eilschritt nach
Hause, und holten das Auto, und zum Glück war das Regal noch da. Ich baute es
auseinander, wir luden es ein, fuhren es heim, und setzten dann unsere
unterbrochene Wanderung fort. Später bauten wir es auf und toll wie aufgeräumt
es jetzt in der Garage aussieht!

<pic images/crutches.ps Blinde sehen, Lahme gehen, und lassen die Krücken für den Nächsten zurück.>

Ganz unumstritten ist diese Praxis, alten Krempel zum Mitnehmen auf die Straße
zu stellen hier im Viertel übrigens nicht. Manchmal regen sich Nachbarn auf
dem Internetportal Nextdoor auf, wenn Zeugs, das eigentlich in die Mülltonne gestampft oder von
der Sperrmüllabfuhr entsorgt gehört, tagelang auf der Straße rumsteht.  Wenn
ich irgendwas rausstelle, meist alte aber noch funktionsfähige Computerteile,
Kabel oder Werkzeug, das ich nicht mehr brauche, kontrolliere ich bei Einbruch
der Dunkelheit nochmal, ob's schon jemand mitgenommen hat, nehme es über Nacht
rein und stelle es vielleicht am nächsten Tag nochmal raus. Wenn sich dann
immer noch keiner erbarmt, kommt's in die Tonne. Schließlich bin ich ein
vorbildlicher Nachbar!

@Z: Topp-Produkt: Kindle Oasis mit Ledertasche

<pic images/kindle-1.ps Ein warmes Frontlicht ermüdet die Augen weniger>

<em>Michael</em> Bücher lesen wir seit geraumer Zeit fast ausschließlich auf
elektronischen Geräten. Für großformatige Prachtbände nutze ich meinen großen
iPad Pro, für Textbücher kommen diverse Kindle-Kästen zum Einsatz. Letztere
bietet Amazon in mehreren Preisklassen an, die Grundversion ist schon recht
gut, für etwa 50% Aufpreis gibt's die nur unwesentlich bessere
"Paperwhite"-Version, und für den absurden Mondpreis von 250 Dollar die
Millionärsausgabe "Kindle Oasis". Nachdem es zu Corona-Zeiten nicht ganz
einfach ist, sein verdientes Geld an den Mann zu bringen, schlug ich sofort zu,
als Amazon den Preis am Black Friday kurzfristig auf 175 Dollar senkte.

<pic images/kindle-2.ps An dem Seitenwulst hält sich das Gerät mühelos.>

Nun habe ich auf dem Gerät schon 25% des ellenlangen neuen Obama-Buches
gelesen, und ich muss sagen, dass ich nicht nur das einstellbar wärmere
Frontlicht schätze, sondern auch den merkwürdigen Seitenwulst, an dem
sich das Gerät mühelos mit einer Hand halten lässt, gerne auch von
jemandem, der todmüde im Bett kurz vor dem Wegratzen noch drei Absätze lesen
möchte.

<pic images/kindle-3.ps Der Kindle in der Ledertasche von Drink+Hide für den Cowboy-Look.>

Wo rein mit dem Teil nach dem Lesen, damit es nicht einstaubt? Klassische
Kindlemappen waren mir immer ein Greuel, weil sie das Gewicht des Geräts
teilweise verdoppeln und dann strengt mich das Hochhalten zu sehr an.
Deshalb stecken meine andere Kindles in einfachen Schubern, und ich halte
sie beim Lesen ohne jegliche Hülle in der Hand. Beim Oasis suchte ich nach
einer exklusiveren Variante und fand den Lederschuber der Marke
"Drink \& Hide" auf Amazon für 37 Dollar. Das Teil ist der Hammer! Extrem
weiches und wohlriechendes Leder, hochgradig handschmeichelnd und 
absolut perfekt genäht, kommt angeblich aus Guatemala und wird in den USA
nur Online vertrieben. Topp-Produkt!

@Z: Brezen selber backen

<pic images/pretzel-ready.ps Die fertig gebackenen Brezeln lehren dem Brezen Bauer das Fürchten.>

<em>Michael</em> Frische Brezen sind in San Francisco leider Mangelware, man
kann zwar einen Tag alte Brezen von "Esther's Bakery" in Mountain View beim
Ökosupermarkt "Rainbow Grocery" erwerben, aber wer mag schon altbackene Brezen!
Wie schonmal in <RBLINK>20160618#6</RBLINK> berichtet, entdeckte ich vor einigen
Jahren ein vorgefertigtes Brezenbackmix, buk damit alle paar Wochen mal ein
Backblech voller Brezen und war soweit zufrieden damit.

Wegen Corona verbrachte ich viel Zeit daheim, und stolperte über ein
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6OEQ59hCr0M|Youtube-Video|Brezenbackvideo</LINK> mit einem Rezept für astreine Brezen aus den Zutaten Mehl, Hefe,
Wasser und Abflussreiniger. Ihr habt richtig gelesen, denn es ist
Natronlauge, mit der die Brezen ihre typische dunkelbraune Farbe bekommen
und den charakteristischen Geschmack, der sie von der gemeinen Semmel
unterscheidet.

<pic images/pretzel-lye.ps Konzentrierte Natronlauge bäckt die Brezen braun.>

Konzentrierte Natronlauge in Pulverform kann man über's Internet bestellen,
allerdings ist das ein Höllenzeug, das nicht nur verstopfte Abflüsse freiätzt,
sondern auch hitzig reagiert, wenn es mit Wasser in Berührung kommt.
Die vorgeformten Brezenrohlinge taucht man deshalb nur kurz in eine
5-Prozent-Lösung der Lauge, bevor man sie aufs Backblech legt. Zum
Verdünnen schüttet man mit Schutzbrille und Handschuhen 5g von dem
Teufelspulver pro 100g Wasser in einer Plastikschüssel. Ja nicht umgekehrt,
niemals Wasser aufs Pulver schütten oder eine Aluminiumschüssel
verwenden, sonst kracht's und der Brezenbäcker muss in die Notaufnahme!

<pic images/pretzel-dough-knead.ps Die Küchenmaschine mit Teighaken knetet den Brezelteig.>

Hefe verkaufen Supermärkte in Amerika nicht wie in Deutschland als Naßhefe in
kleinen Packerln aus Backpapier, sondern als pulverisierte Trockenhefe.
Das heißt, in normalen Zeiten verkaufen sie's. Gegenwärtig scheint ein
Hausbackboom ausgebrochen zu sein, denn überall ist die Hefe aus, nur hin und
wieder findet man in einem Ökoladen noch ein Döslein mit italienischer
Trockenhefe ("Secca") vor sich hinstauben. Der amerikanische Hefegigant
"Fleischmann" bietet aber auf Amazon ein Pfund von dem Zeug für etwa
10 Dollar an, und das reicht dann ein Jahr lang, wenn man jede Woche
Brezen macht.

<pic images/pretzel-dough.ps Der fertige Brezelteig kurz vor dem Portionieren.>

Zum Rezept aus dem oben gelinkten Video: 13g von der Trockenhefe in 365g
lauwarmem Wasser verquirlen, 10 Minuten stehen lassen, dann 632g Brotmehl mit
12g Salz vermengen und in eine Küchenmaschine mit Teighaken geben, und das
Hefewasser langsam zugießen. Nach 5-10 Minuten kneten liegt der fertige Teig in
der Maschine.  Anschließend den Teig 30 Minuten zugedeckt ruhen lassen, in etwa
100g große Stücke teilen, diese in etwa 20cm lange Zylinder formen und nochmal
20 Minuten ruhen lassen. Dann die Zylinder laaang ausrollen, und daraus Brezen
formen, kurz rein in die verdünnte Natronbrühe (mit Einweghandschuhen) und aufs
Backblech. Grobes Salz auf die Brezen und in den auf 420 Grad Fahrenheit (215
Grad Celsius) vorgeheizten Backofen rein. Nach 20 Minuten rausnehmen und auf
einem Gitter abkühlen lassen. Fertig!

<pic images/pretzel-raw.ps Kunstvoll gedrexelte Brezenrohlinge.>

Das Ganze erfordert etwas Übung, damit die Brezen auch schön groß
werden und eine glatte Oberfläche bekommen, und damit der Bäcker nicht
gleich ausflippt, wenn der Teig noch etwas klebt, sondern einfach etwas
Mehl auf die Finger macht. Die fertigen Brezen werden außen knusprig,
innen weich und schmecken großartig, am Besten natürlich frisch
verzehrt, aufheben bei Backwaren ist meist nicht der Bringer.
Und, ich habe natürlich auch 
<LINK>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1BGGU3KeprU|mein eigenes Brezenbackvideo für Youtube||Michaels Brezenbackvideo</LINK> gedreht, schaut's rein, liked's
und subscribed's, wie die Profis dort sagen.

@Z: Ab zum Covid-Test

<pic images/ctest.ps Einfahrt zum Covid-Test.>

<em>Angelika</em> Wie ich eingangs schon erwähnt habe, ist eine der Auflagen an unserer
Schule, dass Mitarbeiter regelmäßig zum Corona-Test müssen, auch wenn gar keine
Symptome vorliegen. Anfang September war es allerdings noch gar nicht so
leicht, bei fehlenden Symptomen einen Test zu ergattern. In San Francisco gab es zwar
Testcenter, die Tests für Leute anboten, die arbeitsbedingt einen brauchten,
aber nur, falls die Arbeitsstelle sich in San Francisco befand. Das ließ mich
etwas mit den Zähnen knirschen, denn auch wenn meine Arbeitsstelle nicht in San
Francisco liegt, gelte ich immer noch als Einwohner dieser Stadt und lasse
meine Steuergelder hier. Aber egal.

Bei anderen Teststellen bekam man nur einen Test nach vorheriger
Videokonferenz, was auch etwas umständlich war.  Dann machte uns unsere Leitung
auf das sogenannte "Project Baseline" aufmerksam. Die haben Testcenter überall
in der Bay Area, arbeiten mit den lokalen und staatlichen Behörden zusammen und
der Test steht auch Leuten ohne Symptomen zur Verfügung und ist kostenlos.
Allerdings verbirgt sich hinter dem Project Baseline die Firma Verily, was eine
Tochterfirma von Alphabet ist, der Google-Firma.
Verily stampfte das Project Baseline nicht etwa wegen Corona aus der
Erde, sondern ist allgemein daran interessiert, wie Daten und
Forschungsergebnissse für den Einzelnen genutzt werden können, um seine
Gesundheit zu verbessern.  Die Covid-Testerei läuft über die Google-Plattform,
denn um einen Termin auszumachen, muss man eigentlich über einen
Google-E-Mail-Account verfügen oder einen neuen einrichten. Das nun besorgte
Datenschützer zu Recht, denn Google ist ja wegen Datennutzung und -speicherung
schon oft in die Kritik geraten. Angeblich werden die Daten bezüglich des Covid-Tests
separat gespeichert und nicht mit der Google-E-Mail verlinkt. Wegen der kritischen
Stimmen erlaubt Google aber jetzt auch Nicht-Google-E-Mails.

Wie läuft das Ganze nun ab? Ich ging auf die
<LINK>https://www.projectbaseline.com/study/covid-19/|Project-Baseline-Covid-Webseite</LINK>,
drückte auf den "Get Started" Knopf und musste mich dann mit meiner E-Mail
anmelden. Dann gilt es, einige Formulare elektronisch zu unterschreiben, in
denen man versichert, dass man 18 Jahre alt ist und sich bereit erklärt, dass
es zum Beispiel okay ist, dass die Covidprobe an ein Labor geschickt und die
Daten zu diesem Zweck mit diesem Labor ausgetauscht werden. Dann füllte ich
online einen Fragebogen bezüglich Corona aus, also zum Beispiel mein Alter,
Symptome, Vorerkrankungen, erhöhtes Risiko durch den Beruf, und so weiter, und
dann geht es endlich an die Terminvergabe.

Mir wurden freie Termine bei Teststellen in der näheren Umgebung vorgeschlagen.
Ich suchte mir einen Termin bei einem Testzentrum in San Mateo aus, das sich
praktisch fast gegenüber unserer Schule auf einem Messegelände befindet. Ich
musste auch meine Krankenkassennummern zur Terminvergabe angeben, diese wird in
Kalifornien nämlich zur Kasse gebeten. Hat man keine, kostet der Test aber nichts. Ich
habe den Test ja jetzt schon einige Male gemacht und manchmal sind alle Termine
weg.  Aber in der Regel werden jeden Tag neue zur Verfügung gestellt. Ich bekam
dann die Bestätigung per E-Mail, mit einer Identifizierungsnummer, die jeder
zum Termin mitbringen muss.

Dann fuhr ich mit dem Auto zum Testcenter in San Mateo. Zunächst reihte ich
mich in die Autoschlange ein. Jeder trug Maske und die Autofenster blieben fest
verschlossen. Ein Einweiser hielt ein Schild hoch, auf dem die Frage stand, ob
ich einen Termin mit Project Baseline hatte (ohne Termin geht nichts). Die
Frage beantwortete ich mit Daumen hoch für ja.  Der Einweiser wies mir meine
Spur zu, denn es gibt auch noch Test\-möglich\-keiten anderer Anbieter auf dem
Gelände. Im Schnecken\-tempo ging es weiter. Dann kam eine weitere Person, die
durch das geschlossene Fenster meine Identifizierungsnummer von der E-Mail
prüfte und meinen Führerschein, um sicherzustellen, dass ich auch die richtige
Person war.

Nach Prüfung der Personalien brachte wurde ein Plastikbeutel mit den
Teströhrchen hinter meinen Scheibenwischer geklemmt. Der eigentliche Test fand
in einer Messehalle statt, in die ich mit dem Auto einfuhr. Dort kam der Tester
an und fragte noch mal nach meinem Namen und meinem Geburtstdatum, wieder bei
noch verschlossenen Scheiben. Dann musste ich mein Auto\-fenster einen kleinen
Spalt öffnen. Der Tester reichte mir ein langes Wattestäbchen. Ich schloss mein
Fenster, zog die Maske von der Nase, sodass der Mund noch bedeckt war. Dann
führte ich selbst das Wattestäbchen tief in das Naseloch ein und drehte das
Wattestäbchen zehnmal im ersten Nasenloch und erneute zehnmal im zweiten. Dann
schob ich meine Maske über die Nase zurück, öffnete das Fenster wieder einen
kleinen Spalt und steckte das lange Wattestäbchen in das mir hingehaltene
Teströhrchen zurück. Dann fuhr ich davon. Nach 1-2 Tagen bekam ich das Ergebnis
per E-Mail zugeschickt.

<pic images/covid-poster.ps Poster mit den Covid-Teststellen in San Francisco.>

Wenn man einmal im System ist bei Project Baseline, braucht man bei Folgetests
nur seine Krankenkassennummer anzugeben, um einen Termin zu erhalten, den
Fragekatalog kann man sich schenken. Mittlerweile ist es allgemein etwas leichter,
einen Test zu bekommen auch wenn man keine Symptome hat, selbst für Kinder,
allerdings erst ab 13 Jahren bei Project Baseline, die Konkurrenzfirma Curative
macht's ab 5 Jahren. Ich hätte gerne ein paar Fotos beim Testen gemacht. Das war
allerdings strengstens verboten.

@Z: Biden gewinnt
 
<pic images/dolores.ps Biden-Anhänger feiern den Wahlsieg im Dolores-Park.>

<em>Angelika</em> Am Samstag, dem 7. November lagen wir noch gemütlich im Bett
und lasen, als plötzlich Jubeln und Topfschlagen los ging, das immer lauter
wurde.  Biden hatte nach zermürbenden Tagen des Wartens und Auszählens die
Präsidentschaftswahl gewonnen, weil der Bundesstaat Pennsylvania an ihn
gegangen war.  Im Jubel drückte sich die Erleichterung aus, die viele in der
demokratischen Hochburg San Francisco empfanden. Ehrlich gesagt hatten wir das
noch nie nach einer Wahl erlebt.

Nun wäre es naiv, zu glauben, dass Biden alles richten wird.  Das Land ist
zutiefst gespalten, Millionen haben für Trump gestimmt und sind davon
überzeugt, dass die Demokraten die Wahl gestohlen haben, und bei den Demokraten
selbst gibt es politische Grabenkämpfe zwischen den mehr moderaten und
progressiveren Kräften. Aber an diesem besagten Samstag kam nach einem
unendlich anstrengenden Jahr endlich wieder so etwas wie Hoffnung auf, dass
noch nicht alles verloren ist. Von mir aus können die nächsten vier Jahre total
langweilig werden, wenn nur endlich Ruhe einkehrt mit Biden und Harris. Schon
jetzt ist angenehm, dass wir nicht jeden Morgen mit der Sorge aufwachen, was
der werte Herr Trump jetzt schon wieder mit einem Tweet losgelöst hat. Ja, er
zweifelt immer noch an seiner Wahlniederlage, und wir fragen uns schon, wie es
sein kann, dass soviele republikanische Politiker in Washington ihm noch die
Treue halten. Aber dennoch bereiten sich viele seiner Parteifreunde auf eine
neue Ära vor.

Wieviel Biden bewirken kann, liegt auch daran, ob im Senat die Republikaner
weiterhin die Mehrheit haben werden. Dies entscheidet sich am 5.  Januar in
Georgia, denn dort geht es in die Stichwahl für die zwei Senatorensitze. Falls
der Senat aber in republikanischer Hand bleibt, wird es schwer für Biden, denn
dann bleibt Mitch McConnell Mehrheitsführer im Senat und wird Biden viele
Steine in den Weg legen. McConnell ist meiner Meinung nach einer der
mächtigsten Politiker im Land. Ich werde bald einmal ausführlicher über ihn im
Rundbrief schreiben.

Liebe Grüße aus der Stadt im Coronaschlaf:

Angelika und Michael
