San Francisco, 07-03-2023

@Z: Autonomous Driving as a Reality

<HTMLONLY>
<GIF>images/waymo-cesar.gif|Quite normal: Self-driving cars in San Francisco</GIF>
</HTMLONLY>
<PRINTONLY>
<pic images/waymo-cesar-static.ps Quite normal: Self-driving cars in San Francisco>
</PRINTONLY>

<em>Michael</em> On the streets of San Francisco, we're experiencing almost
futuristic scenes recently. Initially skeptically received, but now fully
accepted by the drivers, more and more self-driving cars are mixing into the
dense city traffic.  The first time I came to a stop an intersection next to
one of these cars equipped with conspicuous cameras and glanced over, I
couldn't believe my eyes: the driver's seat was empty and there was nobody else
in the car. When the light turned green, we both drove off, at pretty decent
speed.

I really have to say that these cars drive amazingly well. To that you have
to know that 90% of Californians drive like twelve year olds. I know people
who spent 200,000 dollars on BMWs but can't even parallel park. When you're at
an intersection with four stop signs, there's always someone who's supposed to
go first, but it's quite common that no one does at first, and then everyone starts going at the same time and the honking begins.

I have had several encounters with Google-operated self-driving Waymo cars in
city traffic, and every time I was amazed at how well their driving computer
handled complex situations. Cars from the company Cruise, backed by General
Motors, are also driving around at a similar level. Once I arrived at a 4-way
stop at the same time as a Waymo car, and I thought to myself, "Oho, let's see
what happens now". A second later, the Waymo car cautiously entered the
intersection, just like a human driver who is on the ball would do.

<pic images/waymo-night.ps At night, Waymo cars work as driverless taxis.>

Once I saw that on the opposite lane of a two-lane but not particularly wide
street, a cyclist was coming towards me, behind him a line of cars that didn't
dare to overtake because the road was too narrow. I drove a bit further to the
right on my side to make room, and suddenly the Waymo car came over, crossed
the center line by half a meter and overtook the cyclist safely and smoothly.
No driver in San Francisco, would have dared to do that, and I was surprised
that it was taught to the driving computer. Hats off!

<pic images/waymo-do-color.ps Self driving Waymo cars are quite common In our neighborhood.>

You can also hire the driverless vehicles as cabs. Download the app "Waymo-One"
or the competitor's "Cruise" onto your phone and then book the ride like with
Uber or Lyft. However, this business is currently only allowed to the two
companies in the middle of the night. The city of San Francisco has only issued
the permit between the hours of 10 pm and 5 am.

It is a bit creepy to get into a driverless car, but friends have told me that
they arrived safely at their destination after booking a ride. Self-driving
cars, by the way, take strange routes through the city. Because it is
technically easier to turn right than left, they do not choose the shortest
routes, but those without left turns. So they take detours that a human driver
would probably not choose.

So far there has been not a single serious accident. As
usual, some old-fashioned hippies in our city are up in arms against the
innovation, as recently when there was
<LINK>https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2023/jun/12/san-francisco-robotaxi-hinder-emergency-crews-shooting|a shootout with nine injured in San Francisco's Mission district.</LINK>
In the aftermath, a self-driving car stopped and didn't go any further
in the vicinity of the crime, even when an ambulance demanded to get
through. Left-leaning city councils took to their Twitter accounts
and were more upset about the car than the shooting itself!

Recently, a Waymo car ran over a dog that had broken away from its owner and
had run out onto the street from behind a car. Well, that happens, even with
human drivers, but when it comes to robotaxis, the complainers start
complaining. The technology will still come anyways, and it rest assured that
it has my blessing.

@Z: Social Studies in California

<pic images/sc-arnie.ps Former California Governors, right Arnold Schwarzenegger and left Jerry Brown.>

<em>Angelika</em> As attentive newsletter readers know, I work as a behavioral
therapist in a fourth grade class. In social studies, fourth grade is all about
the state of California. As someone from northern Germany, I learned in my
elementary school years about the Wadden Sea and the North Sea. Here in
California, it's about the missions, the indigenous people of California, the
gold rush, the expansion of the railroad, and the influx of immigrants.

<pic images/state-capitol.ps Glass windows in the State Capitol in Sacramento>

Children in our school are also learning about the geographical regions in
California, all about the capital Sacramento, and how the California government
is structured. We also did the so-called mission project in our class. Everyone
who has attended elementary school in California knows what that entails. In
fourth grade, you build one of the many mission churches that span the state.
Then there is a lot of crafting. Some children create 3D models, others paint
the mission of their choice on a canvas or make a podcast about the topic.

One of my students built a virtual mission in the video game "Minecraft".
Interestingly, this project seems to always evoke sentimental reactions from
the parents, because at every parent meeting we are asked when the mission
project in the fourth grade will finally start and whether we will do it. Since
2017, the California school board has rather discouraged it. Especially the
reconstruction of the missions in model form is problematic, because they say
there's the risk that the missions could be glorified without taking into
account the oppression of the Indians at the missions. Now I have to say that
maybe fourth graders are underestimated here, because at that age they have a
pronounced sense of justice and the exploitation of the Indians in the missions
is indeed addressed in the curriculum.

We also included a trip to the capital city of Sacramento to deepen what we had
learned. So we packed our fourth graders into a minibus and drove off, quite an
effort for a day trip, since Sacramento is about two hours away (by car) from
our school. First we visited the "State Capitol", the building where California
legislators gather to pass laws and shape the fate of the state of California.
The building is relatively old by American standards, as it was completed
between 1861 and 1874. When we were there for the tour, many politicians were
buzzing around the halls, waiting for the elevators or chatting with their
colleagues.

<pic images/suttersfort.ps Tour of "Sutter's Fort".>

Then we continued to "Sutter's Fort". John (formerly: Johann) Sutter was a Swiss immigrant who built the fort and operated it from 1839 to 1949. He named his colony "New Helvetia" and traded as a large landowner and oversaw agricultural land being cultivated. The sawmill in Coloma also belonged to him. One of his employees, James Marshall, found gold there in 1848, triggering the California Gold Rush, ironically leading to the downfall of the fort, as John Sutter's workers left to pan for gold. The fort is now a museum and very child-friendly, with various performances, to show how the blacksmith worked or how flour was milled and bread was baked.

<pic images/speisewagen.ps Dining car at the Railroad Museum in Sacramento.>

The last stop of our trip was the Railroad Museum in Sacramento. Trains still
have a lot of appeal to today's generation of children. My students and I
especially liked the old trains that we could go into, and we admired the post
office, the sleeping car, and the dining car. At the Railroad Museum, we didn't
even have to pay admission, because with fourth graders in tow, who are
studying California history in school, no admission is charged. Since September
2021, families with a fourth grader can apply for an annual pass, the so-called
"California State Adventure Park Pass", which gives them free admission to 19
California State Parks. An interesting idea!

@Z: The Price of Ice Cream

<pic images/icecream-mhb.ps This ice cream cone cost 8.20 Dollars in Manhattan Beach, California.>

<em>Michael</em> I recently heard that the scoop of ice cream in Germany now
costs two euros. That's shocking for a dinosaur like me, who can still vaguely
remember a time when a scoop of ice cream with a cone once cost 10 pfennigs,
but that's nothing compared to the murderous ice cream prices in America.

Ice cream has always been incredibly expensive in America, and that has nothing
to do with the fact that the production of treats here would be more expensive
than in Germany (quite the opposite), but rather that Americans are simply used
to spending absurd amounts of money on such snacks.

<pic images/icecream-wb.ps In the Bavarian city of WeiÃŸenburg, this scoop of ice cream cost 1.90 Euro a year ago.>

At Mitchell's, an established ice cream parlor in San Francisco, people line up
for twenty minutes in nice weather to get an ice cream for a whopping five
dollars a scoop.  It costs 75 cents more with a cone, and the sales tax adds
about 10% on top of that. Also, the servers there also expect tips, like
thirsty camels in the desert approaching a water hole. It's not a fancy store
by any means, with mostly working-class customers, and you have to wonder how
crazy you'd have to be to spend a third of your hourly wage on ice cream.

<pic images/mitchells.ps The established ice cream shop Mitchell's in our neighborhood.>
<pic images/icecream-mitchell.ps At Mitchell's in San Francisco, a scoop of ice cream costs a whopping 5 dollars.>

You also need to know that ice cream in America is not even particularly good,
nor are the scoops significantly larger than in Germany. Okay, the aforementioned
store "Mitchell's" has flavors like "Mexican Chocolate" that I don't think even
Sarcletti in Munich has, but the ice cream quality is absolutely on par. As
always, the price does not depend on how expensive the production and
distribution of a product is, but solely on how much the consumer is willing to
pay for it in the free market.

