=head1 USArundbrief.com Content

This Github project contains the raw text content of 
http://usarundbrief.com, 
a site of two Germans living in San Francisco and blogging their 
experiences in a foreign country.

This repo helps the authors and translators of the site to collaborate. 
In the "de" subdirectory, you'll find the source of the German originals,
in the "en" subdirectory, the English translations completed so far.

The files are named "000.txt", "001.txt", and so forth, reflecting the
corresponding newsletter editions.

=head2 Formatting

The content files use a specific markup language. There's only
a few tags to remember, if you volunteer to translate a specific 
edition, please keep those tags intact, so that the automatic formatter
can render the translation appropriately.

Also, please keep the paragraphs intact and use short lines, not 
exceeding 50 characters. This makes sure we can fix typos and get
easy-to-read "diff" files.

=head3 The Pic Tag

Fotos embedded in the content are referenced by the C<pic> tag:

    <pic images/diego.ps German Text>

If you translate such a tag, please keep the image name and just
translate the caption:

    <pic images/diego.ps This is the English caption text.>

Also, as an exception to the 50-char limit on lines, please keep 
the tag and caption in a single line.

=head3 Emphasized Content

Content to be displayed in italics is marked up with the C<em> tag:

    <em>Angelika</em>
    Nun will ich ...

This is used often to indicate who wrote a specific paragraph.

=head3 Headlines

Headlines start with the character sequence C<@Z:> and should be
kept intact:

    @Z: Erdbeben

=head3 HTMLONLY and other tags

Occasionally, there's other tags being used for more obscure formatting,
please keep those intact as well and keep corresponding tags (e.g.
C<E<lt>RBLINKE<gt>...E<lt>/RBLINKE<gt> on I<one> line), another
exception to the 50-char limit rule above.

=head2 Finally ...

That's about it, thanks for your contributions and send us an email if 
you want to contribute. Email addresses are listed in the "Impressum"
section of the site!

Mike and Angelika
